16 years, every year it has been a pleasure to announce how well we have done.
Because we have worked hard, but this 17th year, I have to warn you that although we have worked hard,
although we have done well, we are not going to do as well as last year.
Maybe only half as well. And worst, if a recession in America and high interest rates do not go down,
if it continues to be sluggish and a recovery chopped off, then we shall be in for difficult times.
I just came back from a journey to visit to Britain and America.
And you know in Britain. For 3 years running, the GMP has gone down each year, not going up you see minus. In other
words, each year they became poorer than last year. Which means workers take home less and employers have less profits.
Everybody is in a nasty mood. A disease which is spreading is Welfare spending.
And is the problem which President Reagan faces.
He knows and Americans know what he wants: to do cut down social security spending, cut down entitlements, billions of dollars.
And their entitlements their, welfare benefits their pension benefits are all indexed.
So every time the consumer price index goes up, the benefits go up.
Who pays for it? Taxpayers. Taxpayers are overtaxed.
He does not invest he gets no profits. Industries stagnate.
But unfortunately, Congress which must legislate, has to face elections every 2 years so they have midterms election this November.
And I met a congressman who tell me is up, so it is absurd,
nonsense that any person can expect them to cut social security in an election year.
The implication being well, I mean we missed cutting it this year. This November
Maybe would cut next year but election is only one year. Then again there's another election year.
So this has gone on and dragged on. And the German chancellor who was there at America at the same time as I was. He went to
Houston and herself as a school pointed speeches at the Americans
Your high interest rates which is the result of a high budget deficits, which is the result of high
spending and low revenue is sucking away all the Deutsche marks from Germany, Dutch builders from Holland. 
All the other euro currencies into the Dollar market to earn high interest rates.
And the yen has got into the dollar to earn high interest rates.
At the moment their interest rates is about 14%. Inflation about 7, so you have a real interest of 7%. 
Why go and take risks, just put your money there. No production just living off government expenditure.
Helmut Schmidt says if this goes on, there's going to be a great depression.
And he says this is destabilising the European democracies because they have high unemployment,
no industrial expansion because money is going to the euro market instead of expanding
factories or creating new services. Nothing can be done.
How did it start, this stagnation and inflation.
Usually when you know inflation, you have you create jobs.
But it's like heroin. How after a while as you pump
in the money or the heroin it doesn't have the same effect. You got to pump in more.
When Carter was president, inflation was going up from about 7, 8% to about 18, 19%
President Reagan stopped the printing presses.
He supports the Federal Reserve in tight money but unfortunately.
The Congress is not prepared to support him in cutting back expenditure.
He must increase the he's going to reduce income tax too.
Give incentives to people to work.
So that is to reduce the tax revenue.
He has got to cut social spending and nobody was willing to do that.
So what happens Helmut Schmidt says. If this goes on, Depression.
I have an awful feeling that in the first round.
After bankruptcies bigger events then Penn Square and Oklahoma are cancerous
Big companies like International, Harvester, and now even in Germany AEG telephone.
They are all strapped for cash purchases. No money
Cash flow affected high interest rates.
How did it know start. Well, in 1964-65 President Johnson launched his Great Society
programme you know he wanted to make all Americans, blacks live as well as whites.
So huge programmes were made costing billions of dollars.
He also had to go into Vietnam and the Marines went there landed in Danang.
In March, 65. But he never raised taxes. Congress financed it all.
By getting the Federal Reserve to issue note.
What do you call a fiduciary issue. You money your deficits visit.
You have your euphemisms instead of say your print notes you monetise the deficits.
So now we say let's stop it. He was stop it that you got to borrow to make up for.
Your deficit when you borrow you competing with private banks, factories, industries, hotels.
So their interest rates go up.
And the deficit expected deficit of 110 billion for next year, which may well become 150 billion.
Will soak up 4-fifths of the expected savings in America.
So, the private sector has one fifth.
Bonds specialists like Kaufman says. Well if will go up 18-20 percent.
There is another school of thought propounded by Milton Friedman who says just stay tight on money supply
and all the troubles will be solved.
All troubles will be solved. After a lot of bankruptcies.
It takes a lot of nerve from Congressman who are pestered by jobless workers and jobless voters to signal
know we must not interfere with the market mechanism.
The British rescued British Leyland and lost hundreds of millions of pounds.
The Americans told the British they were wrong and we should have allowed British Leyland, to go to the wall.
Suddenly last year, Chrysler went bankrupt was quick to go backrupted
Should have been allowed to go to the wall but could they?
Thousands of jobs were involved in Detroit, pressure was brought to bear.
Huge loans were made. Hundreds of millions. Billions of dollars it still can't compete against Toyota Honda Mazda.
Now my fear is, when you have big bankruptcies taking place. After the elections are over, sometime next year.
Congress will say okay that's enough of this theory of money theory let's forget theory, let's
save the jobs and save the companies. So once again you monetise deficits, maybe not the whole maybe half of it.
And the other half let's raise taxes so you get inflation going up again, so we have another recovery.
But is it a sound recovery? You know the volatility of exchange rates.
Between the US dollar and the Deutschmark and Yen and the Swiss franc and other European currencies.
It's a symptom of a deep malaise. A loss of confidence. It does not reflect underlying trends in the economy.
You just ask yourself this. I mean I'm not a banker. I know nothing about exchange rates, I'm not a money broker.
But I know that the Japanese have a balance of payments surplus. In other words, they export more than they import.
With America, $20 billion, with Europe, ten billion dollars, so they have a surplus of 30 billion US dollars.
And the Yen used to be 222-$1 is now instead of 175 is 260, it's become cheaper. 
So the already the toyota honda mazda is selling like hot cakes it. You make the yen cheaper.
It doesn't make sense to me, I don't know what happened.
It is a reflection of an unstable system. It started with inflation financing the wall and Vietnam and the Great Society.
President Johnson didn't stand for elections, Nixon was elected. He had to carry on the Vietnam War. 
He pulled out what he had to keep on fighting.
By 71 the dollar was in trouble. They decoupled the link between the Dollar and gold. 
Up to 1971 you present your up $35 you can ask the US Treasury you see were all right I one fine ounce of gold.
And the US Treasury. Was he right you know you at Fort Knox I reserve for you one fine ounce.
From 1971, they severed this link. The dollar is worth what the dollar will buy.
It sounded very good for many years, it appeared all right. Gold is superstition. And have said whole call.
So they're married and sold gold on the Comex market together with pork, soya beans and other things.
For a while gold was $38 $37 and.
Second hand and American we were
was by we will sell.
But only for a while after a while they stopped.
That came the oil crisis and more notes were printed.
Thank you. 1973 quadruple. 1979 doubled.
So the oil sheikhs have plenty of money, I want gold.
Then wars broke out. You know, Iran went down, the sheiks went down the Ayatollah came up.
Right. Gold hit $800.
Now it has gone down, but it never got down below 300. What is real value?
My fear is after November, whether it is the lame duck congress
between November and January or whether it is a new Congress
Takes office on 20th January next year.
They are not going to cut social spending.
And entitlements will be indexed. Social security will be a drain on the budget.
More bankruptcies and they say right let's ease up
Money supply. In other words print.
And we have a small recovery give the addict another big dose of heroin.
Had so he was all right for a while.
By 1985 inflation.
I was listening to Milton Friedman explaining, he says why we must not do this. So if we do this then
inflation will go up to 25%.
In 1985 and he was
right. That's what is
gonna happen is is no no no.
We will stand firm on money supply and inflation will go down to 5%
And he says you look at the long-term bond market you see is 12.5%
So the average investor is very wise he's hedging his bets, is the low is possible
always 5% possible high is 25% so he has decided it is safe to loan
long after 12.5 the same interest. He will lose
money he's hedging his bets.
But that me tell you.
If I had a million dollars I'm not going to put it in any Bond at 12.5%.
I believe it is a sure way of losing money I do not believe.
That the inflation is going to go down to 5%.
But meanwhile his wallet rates are affecting us and the Singapore dollar
Because we don't have deficit, budgeting has gone up.
We have to keep a tight ship.
Because we are a banking centre and a financial supermarket.
If we dont have a stable of the Singapore dollar.
We can't play that role. It is like the Swiss franc. It is steady and you can move into the Swiss
franc, knowing that you could move out without losing.
But because the dollar went up. Not as high as the US dollar but in between. 
The US dollar and the yen, The US dollar and the Deutsche mark
So our exports have gone up and I was surprised, man
Managing director of Phillips Singapore Mr Lam told me.
Last Wednesday. 4 years ago, says.
Singapore Phillips Singapore now is more expensive than Phillips Belgium in the products because the Belgiums
have just devalued currency.
Belgium, Frank, you know there's always riots in Belgium you read the newspapers.
French-speaking and Flemish speaking that means Dutch speaking they quarrel and so on so productivity goes down.
So when productivity goes down. You want to sell your goods, you allow your currency to go down.
And now, Phillips Belgium is producing domestic electronics appliances cheaper than Phillips Singapore.
You know this is no good.
When I heard that I say where this
is where, where are we going.
How can it be but this thing
The Singapore worker, who was paid in real terms 35% of the wage of Belgium worker is making a product costlier than the Belgian product.
I told him to put up a paper and will go into it and we will make sure that Phillips Singapore will be cheaper that Belgium.
That's absolutely crucial. Meanwhile, what is the impact on us.


Well, NTUC I told him to do a survey. The figures they have given me.
That is what the labour ministry has got.
Retrenchments this first 6, 7 months of the year has been about 2500. Electronic and electrical about 1,600.
And it's not just retrenchment, it's also layoff time short time people are working 3 days a week 4 days a week instead of 6 days a week.
You know for 7 months.
It 1,600 workers laid off for periods of up to 33 days.
Average being 5.6 days and 4,000 workers
have worked fewer than 6 days a week.
Textiles and garments 500 workers, or one in 9 had been retrenched in the first 9-7 months.
Wood working industry 103 workers retrenched
metal industry 300 workers retrenched
The statistics department carries out quarterly surveys of business expectations.
The last survey in June on average showed that on average 4% expected business to get better.
Whereas 3 months ago or 3 months before that in March 10 percent expected business to get better.
But more important.
On specific subject like numbers employed, net balance 2% expect to employ in this.
Overtime, to be worth 21% expect employee led to work less overtime.
New orders received 11% expect less. Output 4% less. Overseas deliveries 12 percent less
Stocks of raw materials 11-13 percent holding
that stocks of finished goods 6% less, average selling price 12% expect lower average selling price.
And they cite political and economic conditions abroad as the most important limiting factor.
For orders. of 35% of the firm's
And these firms in petrol refining, manufacturing of electrical and electronic products, rubber processing, transport equipment.
Well, what's our answer to these problems?
We can't change the world but we can get ourselves in trim.
Increased productivity. The concept of productivity must enter into the mind up every single Singaporean, adult and child.
The idea that you can do a thing faster cheaper with less defects.
With better cooperation between workers and supervisors and managers and using better machines.
It has got to do with work attitudes has got to do with education, learning skills.
It has got to do with good management.
That brings out the best from their workers.
I had a meeting and I think a good meeting with representatives of employers' associations last Wednesday on the 11.
Well I clarified the government's position. I told them that we accept responsibility for education, housing and health because the employers are a bit worried
about company welfare their the arms to carry the enormous load.
ANd it is too late for us in Singapore because we inherited the British system of state welfare
is too late in the day to convert our system into the Japanese system.
Where welfare is carried or looked after by the company. It is a better system.
But unfortunately, it is not easy for us to switch but we can prevent ourselves from getting deeper into state welfare
And move away from state welfare.
And the companies tell me what they want is not the word 'welfare', they like 'benefits'.
Welfare has got a bad name because of what has happened in Europe and in America.
You are entitled you just collect beenfits.
Part of the reason why AEG telephone has gone into receivership is its inability to compete.
The Germans, one of one of Europe's most hardworking, patriotic people.
I was reading on the road between the Social Democrats and the Free Democrats,
cutting back welfare spending and as part of a compromise now.
If you're a German worker, whereas before you are entitled to go to a senatorium see 2 months a year, so you just.
Well I'm not feeling well. I go to a senatorium sit back back hot baths, mud baths, massage.
But nobody is producing anything but we are fully paid.
It is. Now they must pay 10 Deutsche marks a day.
For the first 2 weeks or whatever it was, so that you really need to go to a senatorium.
And all the senatorium owners are outraged because they're going to lose customers.
2 Deutsche marks for any prescription has to be paid by the worker.
Instead of 1.5 doors months so you collect a bottle of medicine you pay 2 Deutsche marks.
And so on. The first few days in the hospital.
Having seen what has happened we have decided we will not have this.
We will work out and I told him.
Not an insurance scheme, like the Americans. Then you have.
Patients sent for examination for diseases which had never went to be treated for.
Fall progresses all covered by insurance, you say give him the works, blood tests brain scan X-rays.
All charged insurance so the premiums go up and up and up and I put up.
We will have Medisave. Calculate that we can just about cover current expenses for class C wards
curent expenses, not capital expenses. Not the building, the equipment.
Just cost of nurses and doctors, medicines electricity, water.
If we have 6% put by the Medisave. Percent from 3% from worker and
if you don't go to hospital, then you can bequeath your money when you finally die the age of 75
owning 10s of thousands of dollars to your grandchildren. So they can go and buy a house.
I estimate that over 3 to 4 years we will have CPF of about 25% each way from employer and from worker.
40% roughly for housing, 6% for Medisave, 4% for contingencies.
I have also suggested to the employers that they might try company benefits.
They don't like welfare-ism. And 11% of what they contribute.
They were keep but they were give a banker's guarantee.
Then they can invest anywhere they like you see interest for the benefit of their workers
They will think it over. It's purely voluntary.
They can participate if they wish and if their workers wish, or they can continue with the CPF.


The employers in their reports gave our workers good marks for improved work attitudes.
It shows that they we have a responsive people. It shows that I have not wasted my breath.
The last year. Talking about productivity and all the MPs and ministers exhorting the Singaporean is a rational
creature who can think so yes there is this benefit for me.
Let's have more teamwork. Cut down defects. Have More products produced in less time. Costing less.
And management style well employers don't like me citing the Japanese because.
The majority of companies here are non-Japanese and Singapore has also they don't
like to be told that Japanese are good. Well, I think they are and that's why
they've got hefty trade surpluses. And it's a kind of social Darwinism
If you don't learn how to do it better and he already show you how it can be done.
Maybe you can be amended do it your way because your culture is different, and our culture and Singapore is different.
But if you don't develop that team but it and get out from that look at that commitment
that loyalty to his company and to the team that works together for the company.
Then we'll be in trouble. But managers say well, they want their own Singapore-style by all
means, let's borrow. all the good attributes from all the good managers.
But let's make it work and let's stay competitive.
Because we are moving into a new technological era, at no phase in the history of human civilisation.
are scientific and technological changes taking place at the pace they are today.
In the next 20 years that transformation in our way of life, the way we live, the way we work, will be more dramatic.
Than transformation from the steam ship, the age of the steam ship to the age of the jet aircraft.
Telecommunication, robotics, space shuttles, optic fibres.
They opened a whole new world.
In which the advantage goes to the highly educated and the highly trained societies
You can be a genius, but if you are untrained in your paddy fields in Guagdong or Sichuan
Well you know just a raw genius.
Maybe you can calculate 7 digits by 7 digits and come up with a right answer
but that's not going to be of much use. We want workers who can read.
The computer printout or see the computer screen as our years that means I've got to type a message
then goes to the computer terminal and that count instructions, Processes go on.
And we've got to train to meet to prepare ourselves to meet that technology.
I believe our young in the schools will make because parents know the importance of education
And the premium that they are prepared to pay.
A private tuition, that goes for the children's preschool and school uplift
The problem is we've got 600,000 workers in a workforce of just over a million.
You know it was automatic promotions four language streams.
It took years because they were sensitive.
Emotionally charged problems so it was by gradual consent of the parents choosing
their own language streams for their children and finally got 95% choosing
He had a 1 and see how and CL2 and TL2
And you can't have a QC circle if one fellow speaks Mandarin another
speaks English, and a third chap speaks tamil and the 4th speaks malay, how can you communicate.
You want to see circles or it's so whatever you call them.
There must be interchange, ideas. You sharpen each other's ideas. And language is crucial.
And somehow I know the NTUC is facing troubles with their scheme whatever they call it. He has to best.
We tried, we mobilised the whole teaching resources into.
Extension I don't education classes in the evenings and at weekends and employers must in their own interests.
Help redeem and salvage this force of 600,000, many of them are salvageable,
they are between 18 to 40 years old. And they're willing to do that and the speed at which our taxi drivers
learn to speak English with no formal instruction just picking it off passengers. I think they will learn.
You have to make them numerate. so they can calculate.
And they can read whats on the computer.
If he did that they can see when you use robot.
You would have to read numbers, science. So you see ah press this button,
Change order or work or procedures. Untrained illiterate worker is worse than useless.
I hope big employers will start in-house courses.
Yes. Expensive, we will cough up. The skill development fund, and that if that is not enough,
the government will meet it from the budget.
But let's do it. Yes make this workforce ready for the 1990s.
And let's make use of the slowdown of business activity to increase levels of education and levels of skills.
Inculcate better work attitudes and generate team spirit. Whatever happens we can't go back to the old Singapore.


When I was a child I was only, About 50 years ago.
There was Less than half a million people
in Singapore and we were already poor, I used to travel in the bullock cart.
To go to a rubber estate in Chai Chee which my grandfather owned.
We cannot go back to that Singapore because we've got 5 times the population from half a million and we have 2.4 million.
The density of population requires a higher degree of organisation, higher capital, higher technology to produce.
The requirements food shelter, medicine, consumer artifacts, to make life tolerable.
And so far we have succeeded and because we have succeeded an air of complacency sets in. 
People assume that stability, growth, prosperity is in the natural order of things, is part of the nature of things.
Unfortunately, I have lived long enough and seen enough riots enough strikes seen enough police clashes with workers.
Everytime I passed by Alexandra Road. I remember the Hock Lee bus depot and workers linking arms in 1956.
Refusing to let the buses out police coming in with water cannons, finally the riots.
Students got shot carrying around paraded around Singapore while he was bleeding by the time he went to hospital he was dead made a martyr by the unions.
And that's just 20 plus years ago. I have not forgotten.
It is vividly etched in my mind and everytime anybody starts anything which.
And why and rather this Ordinary organise sensible rational society
and made it irrational and emotional, I put a stop to it. And without hesistation.
And the newspapers and the media they can write what they want.
You know they come here with no knowledge of what it is all about.
They want to sound clever so they type clever articles.
Do they know what it was like, do they know how it can go wrong, do they care?
Because they'll be off, when we are down.
Well, all the correspondents
who wrote
Pieces about human rights and the wickedness of the Til regime in Saigon
and the monks who were immolated in Petrol.
They've dispersed, they've gone back to America or Europe. Some of them have written books.
Independence and to make money but 18-19 million South Vietnamese are a living in hell.
First lesson we learn is, we look after ourselves because nobody else will if we don't.
First thing is not to waste savings.
I read in the newspapers, I read in The Straits Times.
MRT is only $5 billion. The government investment cooperation he hears, has like $18
billion invested abroad, just take that $5 billion
There again partly why sell land at Marina South, it is no trouble at all.
A new generation, and it happens it goes back
that biblical times in exodus there was a passage they says there was a king, that knew not Joseph.
Joseph help the Pharaohs, Pharoah died. A new Pharoah came up. He knew not Joseph.
Soon there would be a generation that does not know what I know. Riots, revolution, Subversion.
Let me explain. We have 14.8 billion Singapore dollars. Invested in America, Japan, Western Europe, Australia
and a few other countries but we are trying to minimise them so put them in less countries and countries which are sound, stable and will grow.
so that our savings will grow with them. We owe to one million, just over one million CPF depositors 14 billion dollars, 14.0-0 3 on 1st August, 82.
Now you go spend his money when the time comes to pay the depositers you will do what the Americans Federal Reserve Bank did. 
Just print notes, but you know they are a big country with technology, military power, so they have what is called the right of seniorage.
seen your agency American dollars this is strong what it
was vital worry.
Whether you can get goal for a month is superstition, see what you can buy.
We can buy computers aeroplanes Boeing, Douglas, F5bs.
What have we got in Singapore dollar than you can buy.
And you get the jitters like HongKong got the jitters.
The stock market just went into a tailspin.
Our money is in Singapore when confidence is gone, you get a shake-up.
Your assets go down with it,
but if your assets are abroad. you hope it is not a World War, that's different.
But if your assets are abroad your assets will stay up and you can ride out a storm in Singapore.
And that is a first lesson in life.
You know Aesop's fables bar of gold. A man gave a poor chap a bar of gold. Of course it was actually brass but this will see you through.
And he put the bar of gold in the case and he felt confident, and his friends had confidence in him because he had a bar of gold.
And his business thrived and prospered, but he never spent it. Had he spent it, brought it to the pawnshop the pawnshop in the acid oh it is brass
5 dollars. He would have lost confidence his friends would have lost confidence in him.
No business would have been transacted, backrupt.
My first advice to the young. Never go into your reserves. I sound like one of these poor immigrants who gone abroad, made good. And
worried the children would run through the fortune and they do.
When I used to practise the law, I used to run through the wills of estates you know they tied up their property.
Grandfather made a big fortune and decided his children were not to be trusted
they would run through it so he tied up all his houses.
All his estates and he says so many shares to my son, less shares to my daughter and my grandsons and less to granddaughters.
And it will be distributed until all of those who were alive at the time I made the will have died and 21 years after that.
Yes. The law allows him to do that.
But you know how they do you think the testator.
Long before 21 years after the last person has died. They have gone to the money lender and says look here, under this will I am entitled to it.
so lend me.
You know to me. So the lender lends him money, knowing that he will come to money. So 12% compound rate per month
So when the time for distribution came, tThat estate of grandchildren children were paupers.
Who came to collect the money? The money lenders.
I received my first lesson in how would you cannot control, you cannot have remote control of your children and grandchild
But at least I owe you of the duty of telling you that if you spend this money when you pay out CPF depositors yeah right, sure arrived.
Because you could be paying up Singapore notes
of the predict Singapore to open just limited security brackets limited.
And there is nothing to back the notes.
You know in Japanese occupied Singapore. Every month, the Japanese companies and regimens
they call them putais will pay out banana notes. But they were not bananas they had coconuts on
them. They had no numbers, no serial numbers, they all had the same numbers so you don't know how many were printed.
By 1945 January, February, March when you get paid in the morning,
you go to the shop you can buy everything you can get. Never mind if you would require that or you don't.
Whatever is of value. coconut oil or soap, whatever that is buy it. Because by the afternoon, when the others also get their
money, the price has doubled up or trebled. By tomorrow it is worth one quarter.
So never do that. And you must have the discipline which the Swiss have. It is a self discipline.
You never run budget deficits The Swiss franc is the strongest currency in Europe.
With the lowest inflation rate. And that's why they are a financial centre, and had been for over 100 years.
That's why millionaires billionaires keep an account in Switzerland.
Because it's safe, they know that. They would be paid good Swiss francs.
Now if you want Singapore to be a financial centre. Never run budget deficits and don't have.
Don't monetise your debt budget deficits. In other words, don't run printing presses.
If you have a deficit, borrow to pay. Never print notes with no backing. 


I have one last message for the young. It is not possible for any generation to provide for the security of the future indefinitely.
Security, both defense against external threats, and internal disorder, is something that has to be renewed and adjusted,
Conditions change. Weapons go obsolete, new weapons are discovered. Soldiers and generals grow old.
The younger ones have to be trained, doctrines have become outmoded, methods of budgeting have become old fashion.
You got to keep pace with events whether it is budgeting by objectives or by programs or whatever it is.
What we can do, what my generation can do is to provide for an overlap of 10, 15 years.
During which another generation begins to update doctrines, methods of government methods of social organisation, civil defence.
From management committees and CCCs to RCs, life is a continuous process of change.
Defense is something like electricity. You can make it, and you can store it but not forever. It runs out.
And each generation must make and store it's own electricity it's own security. After 10 years I can give you the most modern of weapons, most modern of doctrines.
The younger soldiers we can find.
We could find but in 10-15 years they've gone on. You've got to refurbish yourself.
you have to learn it the hard way.
And that's what the Swiss do, and they take their civil defence seriously.
You know they have huge caves With airfield filters to protect their populations from a nuclear fallout and spend billions of Swiss francs on it.
And they store food, grain which they regularly change so it is always fresh stock.
They take themselves seriously, take threats seriously.
And because they do so. The world takes them seriously
and that have had no war for 200 years, over 200 years. and people
put their money in Switzerland. They what we must aim to be.
Never get caught in the Israeli syndrome. I'm not saying that Israelis want wars.
Okay. They seem to be when caught in a cycle where you know war almost every few years.
Since independence in 1948 this is the fifth or sixth war.
And I was reading last night who said, Israeli central bank says it is no trouble at all, a very cheap war only 8 weeks 9 weeks.
One billion dollars. For the cost of the war and loss of production man called
up half a billion whatever billion dollars, we won't be asking for economic aid.
We can carry this. One and a half billion US dollars.
You know what their inflation rate is? 150%
And in order to win this elections was Mr begin suddenly lifted up all exchange controls all import controls and everybody could buy a TV sets and
had a spending spree and he won the elections. And he clamp down again.
150% inflation rate. So nobody puts his money in Israel.
Every Israeli has a bank account outside. Either in Switzerland or in America. Because your bank accounts in Israel.
Even with indexation means it is worth less and less. We have clear examples.
There's nothing new in history. Don't reinvent the wheel.
Whether to make computer chips, aircraft, whether to seek peace and stability, the world is full of examples.
What we want is peace and cooperation, neighbours who are thriving and prosperous.
Who come and visit us as a good tourist who we visit as tourists, who are good trading partners
Whose economies thrive and we thrive with them.
What we have done with ASEAN. You know it wasn't preordained that that was the way it was going to be, it was made and decided by man.
We could have gone the way Indo-China went, warring and squabbling, and desperately poor.
And in Vietnam today, they are worse off than during the war because during the war.
The Russians and Chinese. The east Europeans. The Scandinavians
and all the soft-headed people in the world gave them food, weapons and everything.
Now this war is over. you won the war, good luck to you.
And they don't know how to even set up a factory because you know lost skill of peaceful production, all you know is how to fight.
And the people who enjoy the perks in Vietnam other soldiers on the bright colours.
The bright boys who go into the army the Air Force and the navy.
There they have privileges. So no talents in the factories all it the dockyards and in the factories, so.
Mountains of goods piled up at high form, cement solidifed, machines rust. Country can't move.
We have clear examples. ASEAN was a conscious choice by rational leaders who knew the alternatives.
I cannot guarantee you. But this will be in perpetuity, you will have to learn to live with the next generation of leaders in ASEAN.
And if they are as rational, as stable, and as Right-minded, wanting to develop their own societies,
then there is no reason why we cannot help each other develop and prosper. But never forget, these were the results of decisions made by men not made by computers.
No computers said that there was going to be a peaceful ASEAN. Several men got together long before the Vietnamese north conquered the South.
So we decided let's keep the communists out of the region, and we should continue to help each other to keep South East Asia and ASEAN a peaceful, prosperous, thriving society.
And on that note, I wish you all, not perhaps as good a year as last year.
Maybe next year will be worse. But the opportunities are there, the future beckons.
Those who see the opportunities, seize them. Raise your levels of literacy, numeracy, skills. And the future can be immensely better than today. Thank you and good night.
