In 1984, the government presented Vision 1999, We aimed
to be a developed country in 15 years, specifically, to achieve
Switzerland’s 1984 per capita income by the year 1999.

How have we done? What policies must we pursue, and
what pitfalls must we avoid, to achieve our goal?

Chart 1 shows how we have done so far. In 1984, our per
capita Gross Domestic Product (GDP) was US$14,900, which
was less than half of Switzerland’s US $31,800. In 1991, our
per capita GDP reached US$20,400 (in 1984 prices) or about
two-thirds of Switzerland’s.

Our quality of life has improved. We have better housing,
good basic healthcare and fast convenient transport.

But I am particularly satisfied over 2 areas. Firstly, health.
Within a short span of 7 years, our life expectancy has

increased by 4 years, from 72 years in 1984 to 76 years in
1991.

Secondly, prosperity is well spread. Let me illustrate this
point with findings from the Housing and Development Board
(HDB).

HDB did a sample survey of rental dwellers in 1984. They
surveyed 7 blocks of 1- and 2-room flats in 5 older HDB
estates —Balestier, Queenstown, Kallang Airport, Macpherson
and Toa Payoh. They located 4,342 residents living in 1,098
units. HDB tracked these residents to see where they are
living today. From HDB records, they managed to trace 80 per
cent of them.

From Chart 2, we can see that 91 per cent of 1-roomers
have upgraded between 1984 and 1992. Nine per cent still
live in 1-room flat. We will look for ways to see how we can
help them to upgrade. Thirty one per cent now live in 4-room,
5-room, or larger flats.

Chart 3 shows that 72 per cent of 2-roomers have
upgraded to 3-, 4-, 5-room or larger flats. Some 40 per cent
now own their own flats, either 4-room, 5-room or larger
ones, and this upgrading is not limited to any one community,
but is spread throughout all the major 3 communities, as can
be seen from Chart 4.

Ninety per cent of Chinese in 1-room flats have moved to
bigger flats; 93 per cent for Malays; and 88 per cent for
Indians, For the 2-roomers, the Malays have done particularly
well — 83 per cent as against 73 per cent for Indians and 68
per cent for Chinese. Malays have every reason to be proud,
because they have, over the years, upgraded themselves from
rental blocks to their own homes, some from 1 to 2 rooms,
others to 3, 4 and 5 rooms or larger.

How far are we from achieving our Swiss target of
US$31,800 in per capita income? If we grow by 7 per cent,
we can achieve the target by 1999. If we grow by 6 per cent,
we can achieve the target by 2001. And if we grow by 5 per
cent, we can achieve the target by 2003.

We are likely to grow by 4 to 6 per cent per annum, or
only an average of 5 per cent per annum. That means we are
already 4 years off target. Even then, there is no guarantee that
we can achieve it.

HARDER TO ACHIEVE HIGH GROWTH
Going getting tougher

The going is getting tougher, not easier, because the world
economy is troubled. The United States (US) is in debt, while
in Europe, reunification problems with East Germany are
slowing down Germany. The European Community is affected
by developments in Russia, the Commonwealth of
Independent States, East Europe, Poland, Czech-Slovak
republics and the break up of Yugoslavia.

The days of double-digit growth are over. Singapore’s
economy is maturing. The impetus for growth in the 1970s
and 1980s came from the 3 per cent population increase in

the 1950s and 1960s. But, birth numbers in the 1970s and
1980s were small. Last year, our natural population increase
was down to 1.2 per cent. This is not enough to meet the
economy’s labour demand. Fortunately for the future, our
birth figures are slightly over 50,000 per annum instead of
45,000. Although we can import foreign workers, we are also
reaching the ceiling for more foreign workers.

Competition in the export markets has also become
tougher. We have lost our Generalised System of Preferences
status in the US, and may lose it in the European market. This
means that we are now competing without the special tariff
preferences which are given to a developing country.

To illustrate the implications of a mature economy, let me
compare the current slowdown with other industrialising
countries in the region, whose current stage of development is
like Singapore’s 10 to 15 years ago.

From Chart 5, you can see that we are affected more
severely by the slowdown in the international economy than
other Newly Industrialising Economies (NIEs).

Singapore’s competitive position is like SIA’s

The present stage of our economy is like SIA’s — it is
maturing. SIA’s heady years of youthful growth is over. In the
early days, wages of local pilots, stewards and stewardesses
were competitive. Hence, it was easy to recruit cabin staff.
Now, wages are nearer international level, and SIA needs
larger numbers of young SIA girls. Today, SIA has 3,000 cabin
crew, compared with less than 1,000 in the 1970s. It is not
easy to recruit such numbers and yet maintain high standards.

SIA also had many new routes to expand to during their
early years, Now, it flies to 68 cities in 40 countries, SIA finds
it difficult to acquire new and profitable routes. For example,
to fly to New York, SIA took many years to prepare. The start
up costs, mainly in advertising and promotions, exceeded $10
million and $0.5 million in fireworks alone.

But there is no guarantee that SIA can succeed. All it has is
the determination that it can succeed. The stakes are high and
competition is intense and getting tougher. | will give two
examples.

We are very proud of our fastest service to New York and
back. That was only 2 months ago. But Northwest Airlines
has fought back. It is about to restructure its SIN-NY flight to
cut flight time to 20 hours and 30 minutes, which will be 2
hours and 5 minutes faster than SIA’s. This may not be
important to a tourist, but it is important to a businessman.
Fortunately for SIA, it will still be faster on the return leg as a
result of tailwinds: 1 hour and 40 minutes ahead of
Northwest. This is the sort of tough competition we are
encountering and we got to be ‘on the ball’ like SIA.

Another example: Many developing countries are also
going international, like SIA, and they have the advantage of
lower wages. Asian airlines like Cathay Pacific Airways, Thai
Airways and MAS are all out to overtake SIA. SIA's

competitiveness, its readiness to fight back and to compete is
what makes investors bullish on SIA’s future. Mr Sim Chey
Hoon, an investment analyst in a stock-broking firma wrote in
the Sunday Times (26 July 1992):

“SIA shares offer good value for investors
who are willing to take a longer-term
perspective. SIA has a successful product
that puts it in good stead to compete
effectively — superb in-flight service, a
modern fleet and strong financial position.”

Mr Sim's analysis assumes that SIA’s management and
workers can and will keep up their high standards and
increase productivity to meet leaner, hungrier and fiercer low
wage competitors. SIA’s good management and high
productivity is taken for granted.

This is exactly my worry. Singaporeans have taken good
government for granted. They assume that just because
Singapore has done well in the past, it will continue to do
well in future. Yes, Singapore can do well, provided we all
make the effort as in the past.

Competition is all year round

We will be making a fatal mistake if we assume that once
we are at the top, we will always stay on top. Competition is
all year round. Every year is a new tournament. Having the
best airport, the best seaport, the best work force, and a high
per capita income does not mean that we will not be beaten
for these honours in the next round.

Look at the competitions in the Olympics. You can win a
gold medal in Seoul in 1988 but you can be out of the finals
in Barcelona. Or look at the semi-pro football tournament at
home. You can be competing in the semi-finals or in the finals
last year but this year you are struggling to be in First Division.

Let our economy not be relegated to the Second Division.
We may not be the champion, but we should at least be

competing in the First Division, and better still, amongst the
top teams.

Countries compete furiously for investments, tourists,
markets, talent, and economic growth. The trend towards
globalisation of companies means that they can move in and
out of a country easily. They will locate in countries which
give them the sharpest competitive edge and the best terms.

To understand what globalisation means to you, look again
at the semi-pro football tournament. If you buy the right
foreign players, your team will be at the top of the league. If
you don’t pay them well, they will join another team and try
to knock you out in the tournament. Even your own local
talent will leave you for better terms elsewhere. Likewise,
international companies and multi-nationals will move to
where the competitive terms are best.

The establishment of the Single European Market at the end
of 1992, and the agreement for the North American Free
Trade Agreement (NAFTA) in August, will adversely affect
ASEAN economies. These markets may become less
accessible than in the past because of protectionist pressures.

Now that Mexico is in NAFTA, it will become more
competitive, and attract more foreign investments. This will be
at the expense of ASEAN and the NIEs. This means that we
have to strengthen our competitiveness.

President George Bush at a press conference this week
when commenting on NAFTA said:

“The Cold War is over. The principal
challenge now facing the United States is to
compete in a rapidly expanding global
market place”.

“Competition” is the key challenge for countries in future
— competition for investments, for markets, and for a higher
standard of living for their own people. It is so for the US, the
NIEs and has to be so for Singapore.

NEED TO STAY COMPETITIVE

Key challenge: stay competitive

The challenge ahead of us is whether we can stay
competitive as our economy matures, like the Japanese have
done. If we can, then we always create new resources. With
resources, we can solve our problems — housing, better
schools, more hospital beds for an ageing population, and
more roads to take in more cars. If we cannot, we will rapidly
decline. Not only will problems not be solved, but they will
compound themselves. The key to this competitiveness goes
back to productivity.

Productivity

While international consultants like BERI have rated our

workforce as one of the best in the world, we must realise that
the productivity of our workers lags behind those of
developed countries.

Soon, we will not be competing as an NIE but as a
developed economy. We have to raise our productivity to
stay competitive as a developed country. Our worker must
produce goods or services worth more than others elsewhere
for every dollar paid to him. How does our output per worker
compare with other countries?

Chart 6 shows that Singapore’s output per worker is ahead
of South Korea and Taiwan and similar to Hong Kong's, but it
is only half that of the G7 countries (US, Japan, Germany,
France, Britain, Italy, Canada).

This shows that while our per capita income may be near
that of a developed country’s, our productivity per worker is
far behind.

Chart 7 shows how far behind we are against the most
productive OECD country in each sector (in 1987). It assumes
that our future productivity growth equals that during the

period 1986-91. For example, the assumed productivity
growth for manufacturing is 3.5 per cent. It will take us 21
years to reach the productivity level of the best OECD
country, in this case Japan. This is a long way for us to go
before we catch up with the best in the world.

In the construction sector, we have achieved only 0.25 per
cent of the level of the best OECD country in terms of
productivity, which is Japan. The output per worker for Japan
is US$38,000. Ours is only 40 per cent of that. And our
present productivity rate is only 1.4 per cent. If we grow at 1.4
per cent per year, it would take us half a century to achieve
the output per worker of the Japanese. That is how far behind
we are when we compare ourselves with what we call the
‘First Division’.

We may have the most competitive economy amongst the
NIEs, but our output per worker is still way below that of the
most productive developed countries. So, if we can increase
our output per worker to that prevailing in developed
countries, wages and salaries can likewise rise.

How fast can our productivity grow?

Let’s look at Chart 8 and compare Singapore’s experience
with the experience of other countries at stages of
development which we will be in 1999. For Japan, it was
during the period 1978-87 when its productivity growth was 3
per cent. We are aiming for 4 per cent productivity growth,
which is higher than what Japan achieved in the 1980s.

Can we grow at 4 per cent when Japan only managed to
grow at 3 per cent per annum during that period? That is a
tough question. Three per cent is possible, but 4 per cent, |
think, is a bit tough. But let’s make a big effort to achieve it.

WELFARE - THE FAILED ALTERNATIVE
Welfarism - New Zealand

Many countries have tried to avoid this arduous upward
climb. Their governments promised their people the good life,
without telling them that they must work hard for it.

Their solution was state welfare and subsidies. It has failed
all over the world, and ruined many developed countries.
Singaporeans must avoid subsidies and welfare.

See what welfarism has done to a rich and successful
country like New Zealand. New Zealand’s population is 3.4
million, about the same as Singapore. But New Zealand has
more resources than Singapore. It has 3 million people; 30
million sheep; cows; horses; deer; timber; mountains; and
lakes. It has a beautiful weather, plenty of land, and is a great
place for tourism. New Zealand is a popular holiday
destination for Singaporeans.

In 1966, New Zealand was the fifth richest country in the
world. Unfortunately, its varied welfare programmes increase
the people’s dependency on the country and eroded their
competitiveness. Today, New Zealand’s ranking has fallen to
19th.

An example of a well-meaning scheme that increases
dependency is the Domestic Purposes Benefit (DPB)
programme, which was meant to help unwed mothers and
those whose marriages have broken down. The programme

started with 4,000 recipients in 1973. Today, it has ballooned
to 100,000. This is more than the total number of households
in Toa Payoh and Ang Mo Kio. And remember, New Zealand's
population is about the same size as Singapore’s.

What is the moral of New Zealand’s experience? Let me
quote from their Minister of Social Welfare, the Hon. Jenny
Shipley, someone who can speak with authority. In a lecture
at the Massey University on 3 July 1992, she said:

“We have developed an attitude that no
matter what happens the state will provide.
It has sapped our will to be responsible for
ourselves and reduced us to moral and
material poverty....

The welfare state ... produces young
illiterates, juvenile delinquents, alcoholics,
substance abusers, drug addicts, and
rejected people at an accelerating speed.
The fundamental problem is that we are in
our Own way Creating a society where many
individual people no longer feel a cohesive
purpose, or responsibility to themselves or
others. “

She then went on to draw lessons from the Swedish
Welfare State and concluded:

“Given the accumulating evidence in my
view, it is true to conclude that both the
New Zealand and the Swedish Welfare
State are anything but the utopias their
creators had envisaged. “

Germany

Even Germany is questioning its generous welfare system.
Chancellor Kohl wrote an article in Die Bank magazine,
reported in the Straits Times (4 Aug 1992). He said:

“Germany must restructure welfare benefits
so they do not undermine the incentive to
work. Its international competitiveness has
been eroded by generous working
conditions .... Social security at the high
German level can only be guaranteed if our
economy remains competitive.”

The German economy is the most successful after Japan.
But it is making slower progress than Japan for some 10 years
now because of excessive welfare subsidies. Chancellor Kohl
now has proposed that Germans pay more for their public
healthcare system. To cut down malingering, he has proposed
that workers who take sick leave should not be paid on their
first day of illness.

The real lesson is clear for all to learn that the more the
subsidies and the welfare, the lower the competitiveness of
the workers. That is what has slowed down the New
Zealanders. Now the Germans are feeling it.

Never reduce incentive to work

We must never reduce the incentive for people to work
their best to out-perform other workers. Otherwise, we will
never make it to being a developed country.

On 17 July 1992, Dr Mahathir was at Trengganu to open a
sheep farm there. He has introduced sheep-rearing to the rural
folks to improve their income. He said that the Government
will not seek popularity by distributing its wealth to the rakyat
blindly as “such action will make them lazy and weak”.

He said that people must work hard and think of various
income-generating opportunities to achieve success in life and
become respected citizens by others.

The Malaysians have oil and gas, yet Mahathir is against
wealth distribution to the Bumiputras. We do not have any
wealth from natural resources to distribute. If we distribute our
surpluses and reserves, we will be ruined. Your CPF savings
which are in Singapore dollar will be devalued because we
will have no solid backing for it.

We must never reduce the incentive for Singaporeans to
excel and upgrade themselves. This spirit to constantly
improve ourselves must be ingrained in our people.

INDIVIDUAL RIVALRY — THE HONG KONG APPROACH

One economy which has remained highly competitive is
Hong Kong. In Hong Kong, competition is based on
individual effort and reward. Its safety nets are kept to the
bare essentials — some subsidised public housing for only 40
per cent of the population, and some subsidised medical care.
But there is no CPF or Medisave for the people.

As a result, the Hong Kong people have tremendous drive
and are very competitive. They work hard as entrepreneurs,
manufacturers, property developers, professionals, craftsmen
and workers, especially in construction. They innovate and
compete fiercely for markets. As a result, their economy is
vibrant and resilient. No Hong Kong government worries that
its economy will collapse. No Hong Konger blames the
government if he does not do well. He knows he has to seize
the opportunities out there and he deserves what he puts in.

WINNING AS A TEAM — THE SINGAPORE APPROACH

Singapore cannot be a Hong Kong. In Hong Kong, it is
every man for himself because they do not need to have the
common will to defend Hong Kong; it is the United Kingdom
ane later the Peoples’ Republic of China that will defend
them.

Singapore has to defend itself, being a nation with a sense
of common identity and a shared destiny.

Singaporeans cannot just compete as individuals as in
Hong Kong, but must also compete as a Singapore team. Our
main competitors are outside Singapore. We have to be
competitive as individuals, as well as a team because the
competition is outside Singapore and it is Singapore versus
other countries or Singapore versus the rest of the world in the
economic field.

We therefore need to balance ourselves somewhere
between Hong Kong's individualism and New Zealand's
group welfarism. Our balance must achieve the following 4
main objectives:

Encourage enterprise and self-reliance;

Provide affordable housing, health and education;
Develop high quality education;

Build up individual and group assets.

Encourage enterprise

To encourage enterprise, we must give incentives for
people to strive and venture. The best incentive is a good pay
cheque and light taxes, especially direct taxes.

We will maintain the present policy of rewarding workers
according to performance and letting them keep as much as
possible of their income. This is to avoid dampening the
motive to work. People must decide how to spend their
money, rather than the Government deciding for them
through programmes and services funded by heavy taxes.

Singaporeans pay relatively low personal income tax, as
illustrated in Chart 9. Singapore’s starting tax rate is 3 per
cent. The next lowest is 15 per cent for Japan, 15 per cent for
the US, 24 per cent for New Zealand, 25 per cent for the UK,
28 per cent for Canada, and 30 per cent for Sweden.

These countries have very high starting tax rates, because
they need the income to fund their welfare programmes. So
the people have no choice but to pay 30 per cent for tax right
 
away. Those who work much more, pay a much higher rate,
and the government decides how to spend the money for
them. That is not the road we want to take. We want to
impose light taxes on you and you decide how you want to
spend your disposable income. Our tax rate is not only low,
but about half of those who pay tax, that is 500,000 people,
pay less than $150 per year.

Affordable basic amenities

Although we are against subsidies as a matter of principle,
we will continue to provide substantial subsidies in three
basic areas:

Housing, because home ownership gives every citizen a
stake in the country and makes for a more stable
society.

Health, because it is the foundation for a full and
productive life for each one of us.

Education, because it makes our people productive and
competitive.

We will make sure these always remain affordable. In
addition, rental housing, Medishield and Medifund, and
bursaries will provide the safety nets for those who still cannot
buy their own homes, or pay for basic healthcare, or their
school and university fees, despite the substantial subsidies.

Develop high quality education

The future of Singapore depends on the knowledge, skills,
and training of our people, that is, the quality of our
education. It is the quality of the education which determines
a people’s competitiveness. If a child is not well-taught, if the
teaching is not rigorous, if he is not competitive in school, it is
unlikely that he will be able to compete for good-paying jobs
when he leaves school.

Capital-intensive investments will raise our productivity.
But other countries can do likewise. The difference in results
springs from the different standards of education. Better
educated and trained Singaporeans can maximise the use of
the same machines than other people and our productivity
will be higher. It goes back to education, to how we train our
people, and how we get our children to excel in school.

Education is something special which we can give to our
people. A good education system depends not only on
resources, which the state will provide, but also on the
following:

Students competing to do well in schools;

Schools competing against one another;

Good schools emerging to show other schools how they
can improve.

Competitive school system

Our school system has always been competitive. Pupils
get tested regularly, and ranked in class. Admission to
secondary schools is by PSLE results, to junior colleges and
polytechnics by ‘O’ level results, and to universities by ‘A’
level results. As a result, everybody studies hard, and each
year our examination results have improved.

Examinations may not be the only thing in life, but they are
important. If a pupil fails to do well in school, even if he has
other qualities to compensate for, he will find it much harder
to succeed later in life. That is why | introduced scholarships
into the Edusave scheme, to give incentives to the students to
distinguish themselves academically. The prizes are not just
for the top students throughout Singapore, but also for top
students in each school, so that everyone can see that if he
tries harder, he has a chance to receive an Edusave
scholarship. It is to get people to treasure knowledge, to strive
for knowledge, to compete and distinguish themselves
academically.

This is the way schools in the East have always been run —
in Korea, Japan, and Taiwan. In ancient China, students from
all over the empire took the imperial examinations. When
someone passed the examination, there was great rejoicing.
The top student for the year, the zhuang yuan, sometimes got
to marry the emperor's daughter.

But upholding academic excellence is being denigrated by
liberals in the West. In some countries, the view has been
that pupils should be left to develop at their own pace,
without any pressure. According to this view, pupils should
not be corrected when they do something wrong. Children
do not have to be taught spelling, grammar or sentence
structure because they will automatically discover these skills
if left to themselves. Pupils who have done well should not
be singled out for praise because that might discourage other
pupils. And pupils who have not learnt a subject should not
be failed, because that might discourage them.

When examinations show that some groups of students are
doing better than the others, they blame the examinations for

being biased, and solve the problem by abolishing the
examinations. As a result, standards have gone down.

No one has ever won an Olympic Gold medal without the
most rigorous training by coaches using proven and tested
methods. If this is so for games, how can it be different for
learning and scholarship?

Fortunately, we have not allowed our children to be
weakened by this soft approach to life, despite western
influences on our educators. Singapore has prospered
because Singaporeans have set high standards of achievement
for themselves and have pursued excellence vigorously. This
ethos permeates all aspects of national life. Our social,
economic, and educational systems have all been structured
to encourage Singaporeans to compete with one another, and
to reward those who work hard and do well.

Competition among schools

Parents want to know which schools are good so that they
can choose the one most suitable for their children. Our
strength has been the passion of our parents and students for
learning and education.

Chart 10 shows the top 10 secondary schools in the
Special/ Express streams. The independent schools, for
example, RI, Chinese High School, and Singapore Chinese
Girls’ are well-known, but they are not the only good schools
in Singapore.

There are other good government and government-aided
schools — Dunman High, River Valley High, St Nicholas
Girls’, the SAP schools, and mission schools. The chart tells
us that there are very good government and government-aided
schools and that a school need not be an independent school
to be a good school. We can be proud of our government
schools, They are in the top 10.

Chart 11 shows the top 10 schools for the Normal stream.

Good schools are not only those which produce the best or
most brilliant results. Those which take in average pupils but

produce good results at ‘O’ levels are also to be commended.
I will regard these schools as good schools. They are what I
would call effective value-added schools.

Chart 12 shows the top 10 effective value-added schools
for the special and express streams. They include
neighbourhood schools like Zhonghua and Buona Vista. They
take in pupils from the neighbourhood and make a difference
to their performance once they are in these schools. In each
housing estate, neighbourhood schools are better than others
and parents know it.

The quality of ECA and the school spirit are also important.
Parents and pupils generally know from word of mouth which

are the good schools. In each housing estate, some
neighbourhood schools-are better than others, and parents
know it through the grapevine.

To help parents make informed decisions, we have decided
to give them all the information — accurate and complete —
about the strengths and weaknesses of individual schools.

| have asked the Ministry of Education to release the facts
and figures of the top secondary schools, that is, those which
do best in the ‘O’ level and ‘N’ level examinations. Parents
can then make better decisions as to where to send their
children. In this way, we encourage schools, principals,
teachers and students to compete and excel in their different
ways.

Autonomous schools

Many pupils want to enter independent schools, but there
are not enough places for all. We should help more schools
to upgrade to become more like independent schools. | have
asked the Ministry of Education to identify those with good
school boards, principals and teachers, and give them more
autonomy and resources. We will help them upgrade
themselves and do a better job for their students. | have
called such schools ‘autonomous schools’.

To fund their extra activities, the government will give the
autonomous schools a larger subsidy per pupil than other
secondary schools. Pupils in autonomous schools will match

36
this by paying moderately higher miscellaneous fees than
other schools, but very much less than the fees of independent
schools. With Edusave, all who can get into autonomous
schools should be able to afford the fees. Within the next 2
years, we hope to have 4 to 6 autonomous schools, and
within 10 years, 10 to 15 such schools.

Enlarging asset-ownership

Let me move on to the last feature of the Singapore
approach on how we propose to share the fruits of our
success. It is not all about productivity and competition.

Because we work as a team, when we succeed, every one
must benefit. We aim to help Singaporeans build up their
assets. When a person has assets his whole outlook changes:
His future is more secure; he has a stake in life and can
provide for his future and that of his family; and he becomes a
more responsible citizen.

Singaporeans have built up their assets individually,
through their personal savings, the CPF and HDB home
ownership, and collectively, because the assets of the country
are theirs. The Government is merely the trustee.

Unfortunately, because much of the assets held in common
are looked after by the Government, Singaporeans do not feel
the sense of ownership over their part of the assets. Thus,
when the Government manages the budget well or
accumulates surpluses, they feel aggrieved that the
Government is making money at their expense.

We think we should change this attitude by studying ways
to let Singaporeans have title or paper to some part of their
assets. The aim is to let you build up your assets, by giving
you title, and personal ownership of as many of these assets as
is practical.

Every Singaporean will be better off in this assets-
enlargement programme. | cannot promise that every
Singaporean will become rich. But | can promise to make
every Singaporean who completes 10 to 12 years of
education, Middle-Class and Asset-Owning.

37
For most Singaporeans, his house or flat is his biggest
single asset. We will spend up to $50,000 per flat to upgrade
it, starting with the older flats.

We have started to sell HDB shops. In 5 years’ time,
Singapore will have a new class of shop-owners.

But we will go further. We will enlarge the share-owning
class. At present, only about 14 per cent of adult Singaporeans
own shares in publicly-listed companies. The British under
Mrs Margaret Thatcher have managed to get 21 per cent of
their adult population to own shares, through privatising
electricity, gas, telecoms and other major utilities. In Japan, 27
per cent of its adult population own shares. We are targetting
for 30 per cent of our adult population to own shares.

Singapore Telecom has been corporatised. Next year, we
will sell its shares to Singaporeans at a discount, with suitable
conditions to ensure that they hold these shares for a
reasonable time instead of stagging them for immediate profit.

We will also set up a company to run the Electricity and
Gas Departments of the Public Utilities Board. We cannot do
this with the Water Department because that is too sensitive.
Then we will sell shares, again at a discount, in the new
utilities company which takes over the Electricity and Gas
Departments.

The Mass Rapid Transit and Port of Singapore Authority
will be corporatised and publicly listed. These are well-run
profitable enterprises. Their shares will appreciate as long as
Singapore continues to be stable and prosperous and good
management is in charge of the companies.

For those now without assets, like those living in 1- or 2-
room rental HDB flats, we will also find ways to help them
own some assets, and to lighten their cost of living. For
example, starting this year, we shall, when the economy is
doing well, help pay for their Service & Conservancy charges.
We will help them and their children to upgrade their training
and skills through National Productivity Board and Vocational
and Industrial Training Board courses. Then they can become
middle-class.

38
GETTING DISTRACTED BY RISING COSTS

This Singapore approach of the winning team can deliver
us higher productivity growth and higher standards of living.
But we must not get distracted from our basic goal by short-
term pre-occupation with domestic problems. Sometimes we
are side-tracked into worrying over small details instead of the
big picture. One example is the perception of rising costs.

Inflation low, Cost Review Committee

People tell me that they are concerned over rising costs, in
particular, the high price of Certificates of Entitlement (COEs)
and increasing medical costs.

| can understand the frustration over the high price of COEs
and the anxiety over rising medical costs. But | cannot accept
the charge that general costs have gone up sharply. We have
one of the lowest inflation rates in the world.

Chart 13 shows that between 1974 and 1991, our average
inflation rate was 3.9 per cent. Only Germany had a lower
inflation rate of 3.5 per cent. The other developed countries
— US, UK, Japan — and ASEAN countries all had higher
inflation rates. Our inflation rate of 3.4 per cent last year was
much lower than the average wage increase of 8.1 per cent.
This year's inflation rate is likely to be even lower — 2.5 per
cent or below. Because of this, our currency kept on
strengthening over the last 2 decades.

Our currency has gone up against most currencies,
although it has gone down slightly in value compared to the
German mark and the Japanese yen because these are very
‘strong economies with very low inflation rate. But against
other currencies we have appreciated very sharply.

Chart 14A shows the Singapore dollar against
Deutschemark and the Japanese yen. In 1991, we have to pay
more to buy Japanese yen and Deutschemark. But not very
much more.

From Chart 14B, you can see that we pay less than or
nearly $$6 for 1 British pound in 1973. Today, we need to
pay only about $$3 to buy 1 British pound. As for the US
dollar in 1973, about $$2.7 to US$1. Today, it’s way below
$2 per US dollar. The New Zealand dollar has depreciated as
compared to the Singapore dollar. Nearly S$4 in 1973 to
NZ$1. Today it’s about 88 cents or so to NZ$1. That’s why it
is so cheap to go for holidays in New Zealand.

Now let’s look at our currency rates against some regional ©
currencies. Charts 15A and 15B are self explanatory. You can
see how strong the Singapore dollar is as against the Thai
baht, the Malaysian ringgit, the Indonesian rupiah and the
Philippine peso.

We got to make sure that our currency remains strong. And
for that we need to be competitive, productive and continue
with good economic growth, because a weaker currency will
lead to higher inflation. We have to import our consumer
goods and a weaker dollar would mean importing goods at
higher costs. If we don’t manage our system well in Singapore

and there is high inflation, we will weaken our currency. So,
you can see that we have managed the economy well — our
currency is strong and our inflation rate is low.

Some people claim that costs have gone up more than
what the inflation rate calculated by the Department of
Statistics shows. This cannot be. We do not cook our figures.
It discredits us and will make investors and bankers lose
confidence in all the statistics we publish. | want to clear up
this wrong perception and establish the facts. Let us settle the
matter in the open. Let those who believe that our Cost of
Living formula is not correct show us how they would change
the method to calculate the correct figures.

I am setting up a Cost Review Committee under Lim Boon
Heng, Senior Minister of State, Ministry of Trade and Industry,
to look into the question of rising costs. The Committee will
include members from a wide spectrum of society —
economists, trade unionists, community leaders and
employers. It will examine the rate of cost increases to see
which areas have gone up. It will study why the public
perceptions are so different from the actual figures, and
recommend measures to give the public hard facts which will
assure them that cost increases are proper and have been
checked. It will also study whether wages have gone up faster
or slower than costs for the different income groups — the
middle-income as well as the lower-income Singaporeans.
The Committee will pay particular attention to business costs
to ensure that Singapore remains competitive.

HEALTH COSTS

Health costs is another issue which may bog us down,
preventing us from focusing on the bigger problem of creating
economic growth through being competitive.

In April 1991, we set up a Review Committee on National
Health Policies under Aline Wong. Her Committee
recommended ways to assure Singaporeans of affordable high
quality health care by promoting healthy lifestyles, raising the
Medisave contribution rate, setting definite subsidy levels for

the different classes of wards, and controlling the supply of
doctors and specialists. The Cabinet accepted Aline Wong's
report.

I then set up a Ministerial Committee comprising Lee Hsien
Loong, Yeo Cheow Tong, Dhanabalan, Lee Boon Yang, Aline
Wong and several other Ministers of State to work out how to
implement Aline Wong's proposals, and especially how to
prevent healthcare costs from escalating out of control. The
Committee met several times and concluded that healthcare
cannot be managed solely by relying on market forces of
“ supply and demand.

While we have to make use of market forces as far as
possible so that patients will only use medical services when
they really need them, and doctors will have incentives to
provide good and economical healthcare, we must regulate
supply and demand directly.

We need to control the number of doctors we train, or we
will have too many doctors. They will then either create work
by performing more tests and treatments, or worse, emigrate.

The Ministry of Health needs to oversee key aspects of the
operation of restructured hospitals, for example the proportion
of beds that is subsidised and the amounts they may charge.

This is the only way to make sure that doctors and
hospitals do not give patients more treatment, tests and drugs
than they really need and simply pass the higher cost along to
the government and the patients.

The Committee should complete its work within a few
months. When the Cabinet has approved its report, we will
publish a Green Paper outlining the Government's approach
to containing healthcare costs.

Everyone will know the direction we are moving towards.
This is an important matter for everyone and we will take care
that everyone can get good basic health services with his
Medisave, helped by Medifund.

COE and road traffic problem

The high price of COEs is also diverting attention from our

main challenge. This has happened because of success —
successive years of affluence has led to higher expectations.
Many feel that a car is their basic need, essential to their
lifestyle. They assume that the economy will continue to
grow at a fast pace. | do not. To grow at 4 per cent to 6 per
cent over the next 10 years, we must work at our
competitiveness. If we forget this, there will not be that extra
income to buy cars. Then the problem of high COEs will solve
itself,

I want to meet the aspirations of new car owners. I will do
what I can to increase the numbers who can own cars. But
remember, Singapore is a small country. We just cannot satisfy
all who want to own cars. We have solved house ownership
for all by going high rise, thus by-passing our small land area.
But there are limits to multi-storey roads.

Our roads are like our arteries: they carry blood to our vital
organs. Our cars are like the cholesterol in the blood. You
need cholesterol for proper functioning of the body, but too
much is not good for you because it clogs up your arteries. If
there is a blockage, you may die of a heart attack. You need
cholesterol, but you need to watch the level.

We simply must keep our roads free of congestion. If traffic
congestion does not affect our economy, I would scrap the
Quota System and let Singaporeans enjoy their cars and traffic
jams for breakfast. But if our whole economy suffers because
of traffic jams, we cannot afford it.

We cannot afford the kind of congestion that Bangkok,
Jakarta, or Kuala Lumpur may have. In Indonesia or Malaysia,
the capital does not contribute more than 13 per cent of their
countries’ GDP. Even in Thailand, Bangkok does not
contribute more than one-third. In Singapore, the city is the
whole economy. If our city is jammed, our productivity and
competitiveness will suffer.

BANGKOK

Let me illustrate this problem with Bangkok as an example.
Last year, Thailand hosted the World Bank/International

Monetary Fund meetings. Some 10,000 delegates from 154
countries attended the conference. The Thai Government had
to declare two special holidays to ensure that conference
delegates did not miss their meetings because of traffic jams.

imagine the loss to the country from the two-day work
stoppage. Singapore wants to be a convention centre and we
have held big scale meetings — over 7,000 delegates at a
time.

If our roads are clogged up, we will not succeed as a
convention centre. I am not sure declaring special holidays
will help in our case because the weekend cars may take over
the roads.

Early this month, Bangkok was in a gridlock because of
heavy rain plus a lot of cars on the road. The average
commuting time was 5 hours. Some children were stranded in
schools until past midnight. The international airport was in
turmoil. A Japan Airlines flight was held up for more than two
hours because the pilot and his crew were stuck in a traffic
jam. The situation was so bad that motorists were advised to
carry food, water and even toilet bowls with them.

Because of the huge economic costs of traffic jams, we
have to limit cars by a Vehicle Quota System.

Scope for more cars

But do not be discouraged. There is scope for more cars on
our roads. We will build more by-passes, underpasses,
overpasses, roads and tunnels. We will do all that is
technically possible to increase our road capacity to the
maximum without traffic jams.

Between May 1990 and March 1992, we spent $500
million on road works and traffic control. From April 1992 to
March 1997, that is over 5 fiscal years, we will be spending a
total of $2.9 billion on roadworks, and $1.4 billion on MRT
extension and the Electronic Road Pricing (ERP), making a
total of $4.3 billion. The collection from COE averages $650
million per year at current rate. It will take about 7 years of
revenue collection from COEs to pay for these additional
works.

Also, we are likely to spend about $4 billion for a new
around-the-city-centre tunnel system. The feasibility study is
being carried out. The tunnels will increase our road capacity
in the city by 40 per cent. It will take 6 years of revenue
collection from COEs to pay for these tunnels.

At the same time, we are taking every measure to improve
public transport. Good public transport will reduce
congestion on our roads. Without the Vehicle Quota System,
buses, taxis, lorries, prime-movers and pick-up trucks will be
slowed down.

We are examining measures like controlling road usage
directly, so that we can have more car ownership. Owning a
car does not cause traffic congestion. Using it does. If we
can have a system so that owners do not use their cars at the
same peak times and cause traffic jams, we will increase the
COE quota. And that should help keep the COE price down.

Our Area Licensing Scheme (ALS) has successfully kept the
Central Business District free of traffic jams during the
morning and evening peak hours.

The Ministry of Communications (MinComms) is settling
tenders for an ERP system. We expect to implement the ERP
in 5 years’ time. This is an automatic ALS spread over all key
roads that get jammed up. We can vary charges for different
roads to meet different traffic conditions. The ERP can be as
effective as the ALS, and will make more COEs possible.

Singaporeans hoping to own cars will say that waiting 5
years is a long time. I have asked MinComms to consider
Manual Road Pricing (MRP) and not wait until ERP is ready.
MRP can operate like a non-electronic ERP, using people to
check that cars have displayed special licence discs. If this
manual method is practical we may save a few years.

The whole idea is not to collect more revenue. It is to
control usage so that there will be no traffic jams on the road
and the number of COEs can be increased.

We want to enable more Singaporeans to own cars. Our
situation isn’t that very bad if we compare ourselves with
Hong Kong. In 1980, there was one car for every 15 persons.
In comparison, Hong Kong in 1989 has 1 car for every 34

persons. In 1990, our ratio has dropped to 1 car for every 10
persons. We estimate that for the year 2000, based on current
trends, there can be one car for every 7 persons. This means
that every other household will own a car.

Refine COE system

Meanwhile we want to refine the COE system. Some
people have suggested that we change the current system
where the COEs are sold at the lowest successful price to a
“pay-as-you-bid” system. MinComms is still studying the idea.
They have pointed out that with the “pay-as-you-bid” system,
the Government may end up collecting more money than
now, especially from people who bid too high because they
do not know the COE market well enough.

Car dealers will not have this problem, because they know
the market well, and can judge accurately the going rate for
COEs. MinComms’ data show that bids submitted through
dealers tend to be close to the actual tender prices. But the
spread of bids from individuals is wider. Individuals are less
familiar with the market than the car dealers. They need a
COE only once in a long time, and do not know how much
exactly to bid. These individual car buyers will be penalised
by the “pay-as-you-bid” system. If they bid high, they will
pay too much; but if they bid low they will not get a COE.

Provided you do not accuse us of being a ‘Pay and Pay’
government, and provided MinComms is satisfied that the
“pay-as-you-bid” scheme is workable, I am willing to consider
trying it out. But to be honest, I do not think it will bring COE
prices down.

I have also received proposals for a shorter-term COE for
10-year old cars. I sympathise with the older people who
own older cars. Many of them feel forced to give up their cars
because they cannot pay the prevailing quota premium for 10
years. They argue that their old cars have to pay various
surcharges and will not last 10 years anyway. I don’t like
them to feel forced that they are compelled to give up their

cars because they cannot pay the prevailing quota premium
for 10 years. So, MinComms is looking into this to see
whether they can offer a shorter-term COE for 10-year old
cars.

Taxis are subject to a statutory life span of 7 years. The
validity period of a COE is 10 years. NTUC Comfort and taxi-
drivers have requested that taxis pay only 70 per cent of the
relevant COE premium upfront instead of being given a 3-year
pro-rated rebate at the end of 7 years. This is reasonable. I
think MinComms should have no difficulty meeting this
request of NTUC Comfort and taxi-drivers.

Right now MinComms is working on fine-tuning. and
improving the Quota System. They will give me their
recommendations by October.

Whether it is healthcare or COEs, the issue of cost
increases cannot be solved by welfare and subsidies. It can
only be solved through greater productivity and being
competitive, that is, through income rising faster than costs.

Relations with Malaysia

Apart from cost increases, I should mention one other issue
which must not fluster us — flurries in Singapore-Malaysia
relations.

Singapore-Malaysia relations appeared to be going sour
earlier this year over Johor motorcycles coming to Singapore.
This led to other issues. But Dr Mahathir and I were able to
pick up the telephone and speak to one another. We have
been able to keep these problems in proportion against the
larger perspective of long term co-operation and benefits for
both sides.

Both have much to gain from continuing co-operation and
competition. Petty politicking by either side will be costly in
lost investments and slower growth.

CONCLUSION

Finally, let me ask you to keep your eyes on the big
picture. Look at the total picture, in depth and in 3-D.

Singapore's basic problem is to stay ahead in the
competition. The race for a place in First Division —
Advanced status. It is not costs of COEs and hospital charges
— that will knock us off course. Such problems can be
substantially solved provided we keep competitive and
continue economic growth.

As long as we are competitive and adding to our assets, we
can solve our problems — COEs, education, health, housing
— and build new facilities such as road tunnels, better
schools and polytechnics, new hospitals, new towns like Pasir
Ris and Bishan, country clubs, and concert halls.

Every problem that is capable of a solution we will solve.
That is our strength. That is the meaning of being
competitive.

When I said to you that we would achieve Vision 1999
eight years ago, some people thought this was empty talk and
mere political promises. I never promised that the vision of a
‘City of Excellence and a Society of Distinction’ was going to
just materialise as a matter of course. Eight years have passed.
We are nearly half way to achieving that vision. Life in
Singapore has changed for the better.

The rest of the way will be tougher because we have now
entered the competition in the super league. But remember:
We are Singaporeans. We have come this far on nothing and
we will go much further when we pull together. So, keep
your sights on what is before us. Put in your best to stay
ahead. Together, we shall become a developed country, a
City of Excellence, a Society of Distinction.

Good Night and Happy National Day.