Fellow Singaporeans.
The Malay community has made good progress, especially in the last decade. Malay children are doing better in the PSLE and ‘O’ level. More Malays are entering the universities and polytechnics.
The Malay community has contributed to the stability of a multi-racial Singapore. Most of them used to live in kampongs, separate from other communities. They have adjusted well to living in high-rise HDB flats, with new neighbours of a different race. There are very few places in the world where people of different races and religions live and play together so harmoniously.
Malay Singaporeans are contributing to Singapore’s prosperity. They are a valuable component of our workforce. Now that there are more Malay technicians, graduates and professionals, we are seeing more of them in senior positions. Admittedly, there are still not enough of them in the financial sector and large local companies. I hope these companies will employ more Malay Singaporeans on the strength of their merit.
The Chinese used to have very effective self-help organisations. Now, the Malays are setting the lead. Mendaki, Majlis Pusat and Association of Muslim Professionals are amongst the leading Malay self-help organisations. Malay organisations and intellectuals have spent much time discussing ways to improve the Malay community’s achievements. I urge the Malay community to support their programmes, especially their educational programmes. I am also heartened to see Malay leaders taking the lead in encouraging the community to tackle sensitive matters. The recent campaign by the MUlS-initiated Muslim Kidney Action Committee to make Malays more aware of the plight of those with kidney disease, and to get more Malays to support the idea of kidney donation, is a good example.
The Malay community has become more confident and self-assured. This is good. Education is the key to sustained

long term upgrading of the Malay community. We must make more progress in improving the school results of Malay children, especially in mathematics. If Malay Singaporeans continue to emphasise education, and to adapt themselves to the changing Singapore economy, they will become even stronger partners in our nation’s development. I am confident that they will do so.
I end my speech wishing progress and success to you all. Thank you.
