This year, our economy will grow slower than last year —
between 4.5 per cent to 5.5 per cent. Our greatest challenge
is to sustain this economic growth rate in the next few years.
Competition will be more intense. Singaporeans are in full
employment. Our population increase is low, so growth can
come only from increased productivity. That is difficult, but
possible. But we must try to make life even better, especially
for poorer Singaporeans.

I know Singaporeans are worried over rising costs. We will
keep basic necessities — medical services, education, public
transport — affordable. But we have to be realistic. Salaries
form a large part of the costs of these services. Doctors,
teachers, and bus drivers deserve and expect wage increases
like the rest of us. When their wages go up, the cost of these
services goes up too.

We must concentrate on raising productivity so that our
incomes can go up, and we can afford to pay for what we
need. Subsidies and welfare programmes are not the answers
to cost increases. They will make us soft and uncompetitive.

Look at the experience of the People’s Republic of China.
After the revolution, China tried to build a Communist society.
The government controlled prices of everything — food,
transportation, energy. They gave free medical treatment to
government employees. The cost of housing is only $1.00 per
month, including utilities. Government planners decided on
who should get what goods and services instead of letting the
markets do the job according to supply and demand. After 40
years, the result is a standard of living much lower than the
free market of Hong Kong, Taiwan or Singapore.

Now China wants to have a market economy. Market
reforms are letting prices be set by supply and demand, that
is, by producers and consumers. China is charging for medical
services, increasing rent and selling flats to the people. Their
principle is no longer “from each according to his ability, to
each according to his need” but “he who benefits should pay
the fee”. Good workers have the incentive to work harder

because they earn more than lazy ones. The result is rapid
economic growth, and remarkable improvements in living
standards, especially in South China.

There is a folk rhyme in China :

“If you wish to get rich
Come to Guangdong to invest
From North, East, South and West.”

There is some unhappiness among the people, because
with growth has come inequality — some people have grown
prosperous faster than others. But as Deng Xiaoping
explained:

“Let some areas, some people become wealthy
first, so that eventually we can all prosper
together. We aim to prosper together, but we
also allow different levels of income.”

If they insist that everyone be equal, and no one is better
off than anyone else, then everyone will be equally poor.

There is an abiding lesson from China’s 40-year
experience. China is now wanting to extract lessons from the
Singapore experience so that they can also make rapid
economic progress whilst maintaining social order. They
recently sent a study team to Singapore to understand how we
do it. We do not have all the answers but, all the same, many
people want to learn from our experience. We must improve
our system, not dismantle it. It will be foolish to change the
basics of our method which has worked well.

While I believe that the free market system is best in one
area — health care — we cannot rely solely on market forces.
We have to regulate the charges of hospitals and doctors, so
that they will not go up faster than our economy is growing,
Doctors must avoid waste and unnecessary duplication. They
should not prescribe more treatments and drugs than patients
need. We are studying how best to do this, how to give
hospitals maximum room to innovate and improve efficiency,
and provide good service at affordable prices. We can, and

will ensure that Singaporeans always enjoy good basic
medical care although not for free.

Older Singaporeans may have problems meeting their
medical expenses. Those who have family and children who
are working and can support them are all right. The others
may not have enough savings or Medisave. The Ministry of
Health is giving special attention to them. Medifund will give
extra help to these Singaporeans.

In Singapore, market oriented policies do not mean each
man for himself, because we also have to work together as a
team, as one nation. We are unlike Hong Kong. Hong Kong
is a thriving economy, but in Hong Kong everyone depends
on himself, to do or die. Nobody relies on the government, or
blames the government if things go wrong.

He either succeeds on his own or lives in misery. This is
what motivates Hong Kongers to strive furiously to get ahead.
This has made Hong Kong a formidable competitor to
Singapore.

In Singapore, if someone cannot cope, we cannot let him
go down. We offer him a safety net, and help him to get back
on his feet. They are our fellow citizens. The society helps,
provided they also help themselves.

However, the help should not come mainly from the state.
It should also come from the family, the clans, the community
welfare funds in each constituency, and now the Chinese
Development Assistance Council (CDAC). Each of these can
look after one part of the problem, and do so effectively
because they are more intimate and sensitive than
government officials.

Look how generously people from all walks of life are
contributing to CDAC — factory workers, bus drivers, clan
associations, business groups. It is not so much the money as
the spirit of contribution; the sense of togetherness. When the
community gets together, the Government gives full support.
The Government will match the community’s contributions to
CDAC, dollar for dollar, up to the same maximum sum it gives
to MENDAKI.

The family plays an especially important role in providing

this social safety net. This is a part of our Eastern culture —
the family is the key building block of society. Western
governments that have substituted state welfare for family
support have increased their social problems rather than
reduced them.

Their experience teaches us that while the Government is
concerned about the impact of cost increases on old people, it
cannot simply step in to take over the burden from the
families. If Singapore does this and adopts liberal Western
values, our family structure will break down. The Government
has done its best to strengthen, not weaken, family loyalties
including extended family loyalties. We have succeeded
because we are an Eastern society and have, so far, preserved
our Eastern values. That is why China is interested to
understand how we have done this.

In the early days of Communism in China, family bonds
were weakened by the commune and forced sharing not in
the family but in the commune. This did not work. When Mr
Deng Xiao Peng restored family farming, production soared.

Let us work together to stay ahead of the competition. If we
remain a cohesive society and retain our Asian core values,
we will succeed and prosper.