The Malay political leadership is being renewed, along with the national leadership. A smooth leadership transition will help the Malay/Muslim community deal successfully with two big challenges.

First, September 11 has affected the image of Muslims throughout the non-Muslim world. I am, therefore, happy that our Muslims have condemned the terrorist acts of September 11 and of the Jemaah Islamiyah group. By taking this clear stand, you have prevented an erosion of confidence between non-Muslim and Muslim Singaporeans.

Indeed, our Muslims must reject extremism. Extremists will split the community and tarnish its moderate image. The community, and especially MUIS, must continue to uphold Islam as a progressive, tolerant and peaceful religion. Also, isolate those who involve outsiders in our domestic affairs. These people will only create trouble for us. They will sow distrust and disharmony amongst the races.

The second big challenge is economic. Our economy is being restructured to cope with globalisation and increased competition. Malay/Muslim workers, like other Singaporeans, will have to adjust.

Given this difficult backdrop, you should work closely with the Malay political leaders to uplift your community.

Yaacob Ibrahim and his team want to build a community of excellence for the Malays/Muslims. Such a community will be committed to education and life-long learning. It will focus on improving standards in all subjects, especially science and mathematics. It will draw upon Malay cultural traditions and Islamic values to improve itself.

I support this vision. It can give the community a new sense of collective purpose.

Yaacob has also discussed with me several proposals to maximise the potential of the Malay/Muslim community. One key idea is an Education Trust Fund. The Fund is to help Malays/Muslims, especially children from low-income families, do better in schools, and go to university. He is thinking of an initial Fund of $10 million. I have volunteered to help him raise the Fund.

Your community has a commendable track record of self-reliance in overcoming challenges. In the early 80s, you rallied behind the Malay political leaders to form MENDAKI, and succeeded in raising your educational performance. Now, rally behind the new leadership to build a community of excellence.

In this venture, the Government will be your partner. Let us work together. You can be a community of excellence.

Thank you.