This is the 50th year of our self-government.  Our country has come a long way in these five decades.  We have grown the economy, housed our people, educated our children, integrated the races, and improved lives of  Singaporeans.  We have built a nation. Our future is bright. We have much to rejoice over, even in the midst of an economic downturn.

Our Malays play an integral part in the Singapore story.  You built strong institutions like Mendaki and MUIS, which together with other Malay/ Muslim organisations have helped to uplift the community.  You created new platforms like the Community Leaders’ Forum (CLF) to push the community forward.  Our Malay MPs, together with other community leaders, led the community to identify and tackle key challenges. These include education standards, drug addiction and dysfunctional families. With these efforts, and the support of the government, the community has adapted to the globalised world, and continued to progress.

Education has been a key factor in this success.  Today, Malay parents are as concerned over the education of their children as other parents.  They fully understand that their children must acquire skills and qualifications to live a good life.

As a result, Malay educational performance has improved year by year.  More Malay students are studying science and technology in the polytechnics and universities.  The community has progressed with Singapore.  We have seen some families go in one generation from poorly educated parents doing unskilled jobs, to children who are professionals like doctors and engineers.  Many others have also taken full advantage of the opportunities, excelling in business, professions, public service, sports and the arts.  They are rightly proud of their achievements.  The community and nation are also rightly proud of them.

However, some Malay students still need help to do better in school and ITE. Perhaps they are struggling because of family problems.  The community must help these weaker students and their families.  The progress that you have already made gives us confidence that you will succeed in doing this.  You are well placed to take advantage of the many opportunities opening up for Singa¬pore.

RESPONDING TO GLOBAL ECONOMIC CRISIS

This history puts the current economic downturn in perspective.  We have overcome many other challenges before, and will overcome this one too.  Our world has changed, and so must we.  I am happy that many Malay workers are using the SPUR programmes to hone their skills and hold on to jobs.  Among those who have lost their jobs, many are willing to seek help from e2i and CDCs to find new jobs.  If you have lost your job, you should quickly re-train and take on a new job. Do not wait for  something better because some job is better than no job at all.

Singaporeans must also be financially prudent.  We see more residents seeing MPs for help.  Some have fallen on tough times, but others have over-stretched themselves financially.  I myself have seen some families in Ang Mo Kio unable to service HDB loans.  They have come to me for help, because I am their MP. 

We will do our best to help families in difficulty, but individuals and families must also do your part.   Buy a flat which is within your means.  Do not spend every dollar that you expect to earn.  This is important especially during the upcoming Ramadan and Hari Raya Aidilfitri. Hence, I welcome the “Bijak Belanja” (Spend Wisely) campaign organised under the CLF framework that encourages Malay/Muslims to be thrifty during the fasting month.  Save something for a rainy day, and for your children’s education. 

MAINTAINING RACIAL AND RELIGIOUS HARMONY

Our strong social cohesion will help us to overcome this downturn together.  Crucial to this is our racial and religious harmony, which we have built over many years since independence.  Our communities have learnt to get along with, respect and help one another.  We may have different customs and religions, but with tolerance and mutual accommodation, we can all live peacefully side by side on this little island.

September 11 was a defining event for Singapore’s religious harmony, and especially for our Malay/Muslim community.  Malay/Muslims in Singapore reacted to these events very differently, compared with some other Muslim communities elsewhere.  You immediately and forthrightly condemned terrorism.  Instead of feeling dispirited and psychologically “under siege”, you resolved to become stronger.  Instead of withdrawing, you reached out to engage other communities.  Instead of becoming confrontational, you adopted an open and adaptive approach.  This reflects a growing self confidence and progressive attitude when handling sensitive religious issues.  We see the same spirit in issues like modernising madrasah education and organ donation.  

This positive reaction confirms that Malay/Muslim Singaporeans have developed your own distinct identity.  You have become different from Malays in Malaysia, Indonesia or Brunei.  When abroad, you want to be identified as Singaporeans first.  You have retained your roots, culture and religion, but with a uniquely Singaporean open and forward looking outlook.

We must continue to strengthen our racial and religious harmony.  Singaporeans of all faiths are taking their religion more seriously, and all religious groups are more active.  Hence we need to foster more opportunities to mix, build understanding and become comfortable with one another.  I am encouraged that at social functions, Malay/Muslims mingle freely with other guests. I am also happy because they often come up to take photos and shake hands with me, including women wearing the tudung.

We must continue to build links across religious lines.  Each of us should make the effort to make friends with neighbours who belong to other communities, and encourage our children to invite home classmates of a different race. This applies to all Singaporeans, and not just to the Muslims. As the Malay saying goes: Neighbours who live harmoniously will bring blessings to all.

Our different faiths are a precious asset for our society.  But do not allow religion to pull us in separate ways.  We have to exercise tolerance and restraint, in the spirit of give and take.  All communities should work together to expand our common space, and build our shared future.

CONCLUSION

Singapore is entering a new phase, and the Malay community too.  We see many bright opportunities opening up ahead, and young Malays are poised to contribute in many fields of endeavour.  We have the chance to take our whole country to a higher level. 
You should continue to work with the government, Malay MPs, Mendaki and MUIS to address current problems like economic downturn and dysfunctional families, and strive to further upgrade the community.  Singaporeans must stay resolute, help one another and respond to our challenges as one nation.  Then after the storm we will resume growing, and continue to build better lives for everyone.

