Just held GE in May. My team and I won a new mandate, and will do our best to serve the people. Dealing with pressing concerns and long term issues.

These last 5 years, Singaporeans faced problems in their lives.We faced economic turbulence from the global financial crisis. Government focused on overall health of the economy. We took bold, decisive steps, stabilised the economy, saved jobs, and the economy rebounded. But side effect is that Singaporeans may have had difficulties adjusting to the new situations. We also could not address every single issue that each family faced. Some Singaporeans felt neglected, that their lives had not improved, and instead that pressure had increased.

Analogy – flying in an airplane
Encountered turbulence. Pilot acted decisively, increasing thrust and changing direction. Pilot done his best, but some shaking and discomfort to passengers could not be avoided. Now storm past, and plane returning to original flight plan. However, good weather seldom lasts. There may be turbulence ahead. The situation in Europe and the US is worrisome. We should fasten our seat belts in case the economy suddenly deteriorates.

The Government tried to shield Singaporeans from the storm, but some problems remain to be resolved, including housing, transport and immigration issues. There are no immediate solutions as these are complex issues, and it will take some time to solve. 
Hope for people’s understanding. 

Government has always put Singaporeans first in its policies. Starting point of policies always good, to improve lives of our people. But some policies bring indirect benefits, or only after some time. In the short term, people may see the negative impact but not the benefits.

One example is the policy to bring in foreign talent, students and workers. I explained our policy in detail last year. People logically accept that policy brings long term benefits. But in workplaces, schools and public places, when they feel the crowding and pressures, so emotionally there is a reaction.

Government must handle this matter carefully. Our objective is to find a balanced approach. I will adopt a different angle to explain this again tonight.

Start with issue of Singapore universities taking in foreign students. Some Singaporeans question policy of taking in foreign students, and giving some of them scholarships. ZB recently carried a few letters discussing the issue. One reader said the government had “gone too far”. Another asked: “Are wild flowers more fragrant than home flowers?”

I understand their unhappiness. But we must see this issue from a broader perspective. Our universities’ primary objective is to nurture local talent. Even though we attract outstanding foreign students, these do not come at the expense of opportunities for Singaporean students. In fact, more Singaporeans are entering our universities. Scholarships for foreign students come with conditions. After graduation, these foreign students have to work in Singapore and contribute to our economy. Record shows most foreign scholars serve out their bonds. In the long-run, these foreign students can be part of our regional network and help us build trade and business ties, especially to China.

We understand that foreign students bring more competition and pressure to local students. But competition is not necessarily bad. It raises standards of local students, expands their horizons, and lets them understand that there are talented people in other parts of the world too.

Nevertheless, we are taking feedback seriously, and will review our policies. Retain the benefits while removing the negative effects. Stay open but control foreign student numbers. We will also continue to give priority to Singa­porean students. We will expand university places so more Singaporeans can enter university each year. We are building the Singapore Institute of Technology and Singapore University of Technology and Design, to give Singapore students more opportunities and routes to advance. This will allow more Singaporeans to enter university. Government’s commitment: No Singa­porean will be unable to attend university due to financial difficulties. With the increased number of university places, Government will give more scholarships and bursaries to local students. We will maintain the unique character of our universities: open culture, but with a local context and strong links to Singapore society. 

Besides foreign students, Government also tackling foreign workers and immigration issues. We are slowing the inflows, to reduce the impact on local workers. We have tightened criteria on PRs and citizenship. This ensures that new immigrants are of high quality and can make strong contributions to Singapore. These are practical and necessary adjustments.

But we should not move to the extreme, turn xenophobic and reject all non-Singaporeans. Our openness and confidence has allowed us to successfully attract foreign investments. To high-end enterprises, talent is their most critical competitive advantage, e.g. Microsoft and Google have set up regional operations in Singapore, but their high-end research centres are in China and India, because they have more talent than we do. Hence we need to bring in a certain number of foreign talent, to reinforce our local talent and attract high quality investments. Hence we should be aware of the implications of reducing the number of foreign workers. Our economic growth will slow. Companies will face labour shortages. Hence Government must take a balanced approach in case we worsen the problem. We will help our SMEs cope and reduce their reliance on manpower and adjust to a new economic environment.

Another concern is with our social safety nets. In recent years, with the volatile economy, Singaporeans feeling less secure. They worry about losing their jobs and falling on hard times. They worry if they will have enough for their old age. Government will enhance our social safety nets.

We pay attention to the needs of both older and young Singaporeans. We nurture and engage our youths, because they represent the future of Singapore. But we will also take care of our elderly to thank them for their contributions to Singapore. Youths belong to Internet age, and are familiar with all new things in the cyber world. By comparison, seniors seem to have fallen behind. But seniors have knowledge and experience, having lived through country’s dramatic transformation and development. Hope the younger generation will learn from our elderly. Idiom: Ignore the advice of the old to your peril. Accumulated wisdom of our seniors can help us make fewer mistakes and take fewer wrong routes.

Government has taken concrete measure to improve the lives of our seniors. For surplus sharing, our seniors receive more benefits and CPF top-ups. Lift upgrading has make life more convenient for many seniors. We are focusing on addressing healthcare concerns for seniors. Our population is ageing rapidly, e.g. those with dementia or who have become bedridden can be a heavy burden for their families. I have seen families struggling to care for elderly parents. The Government will do more to help them. For lower-income households, we will provide more Medifund support, e.g. to go for rehabilitation or other elderly care services. We also need to increase capacity and support for nursing homes. Government will develop a comprehensive plan, as it involves more than government subsidies.

We should learn from the experience of other countries. New York Times article: Our impression has been that old folks’ home are a western phenomenon, as Asians will not send their parents to homes. But in recent years, old folks’ home are sprouting in many Chinese cities. This is a new phenomenon, indicating an ageing population and changing family values. Shows that as times change, traditional values change too. Singapore may also face the same challenges. We must carefully handle issue of providing more support to seniors. Avoid situation in which families give up responsibility, and dump their parents in hospitals or nursing homes.

We need comprehensive plans to prepare for an ageing population. We formed a Ministerial Committee on Ageing several years ago. Under Mr Lim Boon Heng, a lot of work had been done. Mr Gan Kim Yong recently took over. Committee will continue to study our ageing population, and develop plans and measures.

Example: Marine Parade Pilot on caring for elderly. Plan to determine needs of seniors, and adapt infrastructure, systems, programmes, etc. to enable elderly Singaporeans to lead comfortable, meaningful lives. Recently completed big-scale, multi-agency survey to understand the concerns and needs of seniors. Next step to study how to take care of their needs and solve problems for them. Encourage interested individuals and groups to suggest and try out ideas in the Marine Parade Pilot. If the ideas work, then we can implement them more broadly. Government is the servant of the people. 

Our responsibility is to help address our people’s concerns. We encourage government departments to improve their services continuously, and handle problems flexibly, taking into account the specific circumstances of each case. But I hope the public understands that public servants cannot say yes to everything; they must be firm and fair in carrying out their duties. Recently, frontline officers tell me that members of the public whom they serve have become more harsh and uncompromising. Such cases in the minority, but seem to be increasing. Give an example: A patient who went to a  hospital for treatment demanded a type of medication. The doctor examined him, and advised him that he did not need the medication. The patient became very agitated, loudly scolding the doctor and hurling vulgarities. He even said he would complain against the doctor. 

I ask you: what should the doctor do in this case? If he gives in to the patient’s demand in order to avoid trouble, it would go against professional ethics and may even harm the patient. I want public servants to be professional, objective and fair. If they cannot accede to a request, they should explain this clearly and courteously. 

At the same time, when we see a doctor or deal with any public officer, there should be mutual courtesy and respect. We should discuss issues calmly. This would help to solve or mitigate the problem.

I hope that the Government and people can strengthen their relationship. We will do our best to find solutions for various problems. But hope Singaporeans can also be more proactive. As our society matures, Government should not take charge of everything, such as cats and dogs. Some weeks ago, people were discussing “Minister catching cats”. A ZB reader argued that Minister Khaw had other pressing priorities, and should not be worrying about catching cats. I agree with this reader. However, I also had to personally help a resident handle an issue about dogs. This resident had found the dog but could not adopt it. The dog had been caught, and she wanted me to stop the authorities from culling the dog. Fortunately, this story has a happy ending, as someone later adopted the dog

Whether catching cats or saving dogs, Government will try our best to solve problems big and small. But seek people’s understanding: some problems or disputes may not be best tackled by the Government. Hope in future, the Government can do less, and Singa­poreans do more. The more proactive Singaporeans are, the better Singapore would be in responding to unexpected situations. Making our society more matured and flexible, and more confident against international competition. 

Let me conclude. Government reviewing our policies, reducing their negative effects. But we also need to focus on long-term challenges, and external developments which may impact Singapore. To raise our long term competitiveness, we need to improve our education and productivity. And preserve social cohesion and political stability. We must take care of different groups of Singaporeans, to ensure that all can benefit from our progress. We must change with the times, renew our governance, engage more participation by our citizens. 

These are long-term goals. Requires careful planning, good organisation and effort on the part of Singaporeans. Future bright for us. Let us stay cohesive, ride out the challenges and together implement our plans to build a better Singapore.