First, I would like to wish all Muslims Selamat Hari Raya Aidilfitri! This year I am holding my Rally a little later than usual because of Hari Raya. Last year, I touched on some of the challenges for our Malay/Muslim community, and spoke about the Wisma Geylang Serai project. I am glad that the project is progressing smoothly, and being well received by the community. A design competition for the building will be called soon. Do take this opportunity to submit your ideas for the project.

Tonight, I want to talk about where Singapore – the country that we all love – is heading, and how the community has progressed with Singapore.

I am sure that you want your children and grandchildren to thrive. But before that, I feel that we must tackle our first problem: will we have enough children to form our next generation? You know the answer. Our birth rates are declining. Malays used to have many children, but now Malay birth rates are declining too. But we will not be passive. The government will do what it can to encourage couples to marry and have babies. I will explain more in my English speech. But in brief, I hope to hear more sounds of kompang celebrations and babies crying at birth from you soon!

I believe all of us want Singapore to remain the best home for our families. We want our children and grandchildren to live well here and realise their dreams. We want a caring and compassionate society; an open city with a strong Singaporean spirit; and a multi-racial society, maintaining harmony between the ethnic groups.

To achieve all these goals, we must continue our multi-racial approach to national challenges. You must know – through the television, newspapers or internet – how politics and society are often organised by race in other countries. Every issue is seen, and fought, in racial terms – which race gains, which loses. We should never let this happen in Singapore.

At the same time, let us continue our efforts to uplift our Malay/Muslim community, so that we can progress together as one society. It is hard to imagine the great strides that you have made since Independence. Now your young people, our hope for the future, are doing well. More are now following the footsteps of successful community leaders like the late Ridzwan Dzafir who passed away last year. Pak Ridzwan contributed to Singapore in many fields: in Mendaki, MUIS and the Council of Presidential Advisers, and throughout his career in the civil service. Another outstanding Malay is potter Iskandar Jalil, who received the Public Service Star (BBM) this year. His beautiful handicrafts are often presented as gifts to tourists and distinguished visitors from overseas.

Recently I attended Jamiyah’s 80th anniversary celebrations. One of Jamiyah’s projects that you may know about is Darul Ma’wa, a children’s shelter. But did you know that many Darul Ma’wa alumni have become successful, productive citizens?

One of them is Sufian Anuar. Sufian is a striker on the Lions XII team. His team was second in the Malaysian Super League this season and I hope they will be champions next season.

Another is Zulfadli Nazaluddin. Zulfadli is a Spacecraft Analyst at SingTel. He was a polytechnic graduate and is now obtaining his degree at NUS. Sufian and Zulfadli have shown resilience and resolve – such people are role models for the community.

Other youths have overcome difficult beginnings to do well, for example Muhammad Kamal Jauhari Zaini. Jauhari smoked and played truant as a young student, and was often caned. But he turned over a new leaf, worked hard, and made it to NTU. TTFS (Tertiary Tuition FeeSubsidy) covered his university fees. Jauhari also gave tuition at Mendaki to earn extra pocket money. He recently graduated with First Class Honours and received the Lee Kuan Yew Gold Medal. So now Jauhari receives praises instead of canings! Jauhari shows us all that if there is a will, there is a way.

Another outstanding young man is Adil Hakeem Mohamad Rafee. More than a week ago, Adil emerged as one of the five President’s Scholars. Adil was a student leader in Raffles Institution. He was also a member of the Singapore team that won the World Schools Debating Championship in 2011. Even as a student, Adil sacrificed time to enter the field and run educational programmes for children and teenagers.

All these successes are before our eyes. They prove that you can do it. Well done all of you!

Even as we nurture the capable ones, we should also help those in difficulty. At the same time, encourage others who are managing adequately to do better. If you can do this steadily year after year, I am confident that the community will transform itself and rise to the next level. That is our shared objective.

So what more must we do now? I encourage all Malay/Muslim organisations and activists to continue working together to tackle community issues harmoniously and cohesively. In fact I am glad that many are doing this through the Community Leaders’ Forum (CLF). You should maintain the spirit of gotong royong. Make the most of your resources and talent so that you can achieve more meaningful progress. As the Malay saying goes: Unity is strength.

The Government will back your efforts to progress, and to develop your culture, but you should make full use of this support. Next week, I will re-open the Malay Heritage Centre. The Centre will showcase our rich Malay traditions to our future generations, other races and foreign visitors.

The Malay/Muslim community is an integral part of our future. You share the aspirations and concerns of other Singaporeans. Like other citizens, you too want better homes to live in, more affordable healthcare, and a brighter future.

I am happy with your progress. You are confident of your place in Singapore. You have many contributions to make to our economy, society and nation. You can look to the future with confidence.

Come, work with me and my Malay/Muslim MPs, and the community leaders, to achieve our common goals. Together, the Malay/Muslim community can continue to progress with the nation. You are sure to take your rightful place in Singapore’s development. Let us give our best for the community and the nation that we love. Let us realise our vision of a Community of Excellence in a united nation!