Happy National Day and Selamat Hari Raya Aidilfitri!

I visited An Nur Mosque for breaking of fast event during Ramadan. It had just been upgraded and expanded. I was happy to see the beautiful result. I was also heartened by the passion and enthusiasm of the committee members and volunteers. They raised funds, engaged residents and helped the needy. This is the gotong royong spirit which we have in Singapore and I would like to see this grow over time.

An Nur Mosque’s development reflects the good progress of the mosque upgrading and building programmes. In the next few years, three new mosques will be built in Woodlands, Jurong West and Punggol. By 2016, 18,000 additional prayer spaces will be added. This is good news for Muslims.

As we build our new city, we are also maintaining our heritage and culture. The Malay Heritage Centre reopened last September. It has become more popular. More Malay cultural performances are held there.

I also spoke about Wisma Geylang Serai last year. Its design has just been chosen. I look forward to seeing the beautiful design translated into reality.

Over the past year, Singaporeans have discussed our shared future in the Our Singapore Conversations (OSC). Malays have participated actively in this national effort. Besides the OSC, the Malay community also held the Suara Musyawarah, which focused more on issues specific to the community. But broadly Malay Singaporeans share the concerns of other Singaporeans in 5 areas (5P) – housing (Perumahan), healthcare (Penjagaan Kesihatan), education (Pendidikan), jobs (Pekerjaan), and opportunities (Peluang). This reflects how integrated our society is.

Singapore is at a turning point. In a changing world, we want Singapore to still be a shining red dot. All should have opportunities to do well and rise, in schools and in life. You should not worry about healthcare or old age. You should not worry about housing too. Everyone can have a home that is within our means. We should all feel a sense of ownership and belonging here. Singapore is ours, not only to own, but to build on and be proud of. We can do this, together.

To achieve this, we need to make some basic shifts in our approach. The State has to strengthen our social safety nets and foster fairer opportunities and rewards for all Singaporeans. Our community needs to be more active – mobilising ourselves to address social needs and help one another.

These shifts apply also to our efforts to uplift the Malay/Muslim community. The Government will be doing more to improve every Singaporean’s lives, especially through housing, healthcare and education. We want to uplift low income households. Every child should have a good start in life, regardless of his family background. These policies are meant for all communities, but the Malay/Muslim community should benefit greatly from them. They will help to increase social mobility and break the cycle of poverty in one part of the community.

The Malay community is a good example of what an active community can achieve. Malay-Muslim Organisations (MMOs) are actively addressing the community’s socio-economic needs. The Community Leaders’ Forum (CLF) has partnered the MMOs to deliver effective programmes. One example is the Family Excellence Circles that support low-income families and their children to move up in life. This slide shows the participants bonding as families and learning about plants at Pasir Ris Park on Earth Day.

I encourage you to do more, and make better use of the support from the government. Work through the CLF and other existing platforms to maximise your impact, instead of diluting your efforts. But be careful not to let competition turn unhealthy and activism result in race-based politics.

I am confident the Malay/Muslim community is committed to a Singapore anchored on multiracialism and meritocracy. I also encourage you to concentrate on the many things you can do to make a difference to your community’s well-being. Whether we define an issue is a community or a national problem is less important than whether we are doing our best to tackle it.

I would like to assure you that the government will fully support your efforts with resources and expertise. One issue is the Government’s contributions to students’ Edusave accounts. Currently only students in national schools get the Edusave accounts and contributions. We had reasons for this, but children outside these schools feel left out, including those studying in madrasahs.

This is a longstanding issue. Malay PAP MPs have raised this with me over many years.

We have reconsidered this policy, and we have decided to change it. We will extend Edusave accounts and contributions to all students of school-going age, whether they attend madrasahs, study abroad, or are home schooled. This is a signal that we value every child, and will help build a sense of solidarity among the next generation.

Even though the Government and community will do more, individuals must still give their best. Some Singaporeans worry whether we can hold our own against growing competition. Quite a few Malays feel like this too. There are many more Malay PMEs now, but many of them are only just establishing themselves. At the same time, there are still many less educated Malay workers, who worry about competition from foreign workers.

But I am confident that we can succeed. Instead of worrying, we should take advantage of existing training opportunities, upgrade ourselves and meet the competition head-on. This must be the fighting spirit that we must instil in the community.

Malay Singaporeans have made significant progress over the years. Your household incomes are rising and education levels are improving. Malays are excelling in many fields. There are stories of successful Malays in the mass media almost daily.

One example is Dr Rufaihah Abdul Jalil, Senior Research Fellow at the Yong Loo Lin Medical School in NUS who did her post-doctorate research in stem cells and vascular biology at Stanford Medical School. Rufaihah volunteers actively, including as a member of the Muis Council. She also enjoys spending time with children and mentoring them. She brings them to the lab and teaches them to use the equipment.

Another example of successful Malays (in other fields) is percussionist, Muhammad Riduan Zalani, a Singapore Youth Award winner who has brought the rhythm of kompang and other Malay percussions to countries like France, Australia and the US. I met him when he performed at a Mendaki’s dinner event. I found his talent outstanding. I watched his videos on YouTube: they are full of fun and energy. Let’s watch an excerpt. (Riduan’s excerpt) These are not triplets but a 3-in-1 performance by Riduan. Amazing, isn’t it?!

Rufaihah and Riduan have done well in our system of meritocracy, and shown that nothing is impossible. Keep it up!

Ladies and gentlemen,

Our future will be different from the past. The Malay/Muslim community too must change with the times. You have shown that you can do so, and I am confident that you can continue upgrading yourself. You have many contributions to make to our society, economy and nation. You share the aspirations and concerns of other Singaporeans. Let us work together to achieve our common goals, and join hands to build a better Singapore for us all!

