Happy National Day and Selamat Hari Raya Aidilfitri!

At the recent Ramadan, I visited Geylang Serai with my wife to soak in the festive atmosphere. The lights were prettier this year. They were glowing and colourful. Very attractive! I was happy to see the crowds at the bazaar.

I also had the opportunity to join in an iftar at Mujahidin Mosque in Queenstown. The mosque has been upgraded recently. It is beautiful. The prayer space is now bigger. There is barrier-free access. The classrooms are modern. There is even an iPhone app!

This mosque is also able to take in congregants from Qaryah Kampong Holland. I am aware that the congregants of Kampong Holland Mosque were rather sad to leave the mosque. But I am happy to see them warmly received by Mujahidin Mosque and settling in well in their “new home”. This is the spirit of partnership and sacrifice we would like to foster in Singapore.

Our pioneers exemplified this spirit. Pioneer Malays had a choice at Independence, and you cast your lot with Singapore. Your choice had enabled Singapore to grow into a unique multi-racial and multi-religious society. Thank you for having faith in Singapore, and working hard with other communities to set Singapore on a path to development.

The Pioneer Generation Package is an expression of our gratitude for this generation. To honour Pioneer Malays, MUIS and Mendaki set up a PG Joint Committee. It is chaired by Madam Speaker, Halimah Yacob and supported by Malay/Muslim organisations. It has been doing good work engaging pioneers, for example set up a Listening Point at Joo Chiat Complex to reach out to pioneers and their families.

One outstanding Malay pioneer is Encik Yusof Ishak, our first President. I am very happy that Puan Noor Aishah is here with us tonight! Welcome Puan Noor Aishah. Encik Yusof was born in Perak, but grew up in Singapore. He excelled in school, and was an avid sportsman. He also started Utusan Melayu, the first Malay newspaper owned by Malays. It was a Jawi newspaper. He became the Head of State after Singapore gained self-government in 1959. He went on to become our first President when Singapore gained independence.

I knew Encik Yusof when I was a young boy. He was warm and friendly to me and my siblings. He also enjoyed shooting on film. When he and Puan Noor Aishah went on Hajj, he shot films of his pilgrimage. In those days, it was very rare to see footages of Mecca, and the Kaaba. I remember him showing the films to us upon their return from the in the Holy Land, and telling us about his experiences.

Encik Yusof was a religious man, and at the same time had close and friendly relationships with non-Muslims. He strongly supported our multi-racial policies. He believed in meritocracy – that everyone should have equal opportunities to advance themselves through their own effort. He had also advocated policies to modernise our society and which had enabled the Malay/Muslim community to make progress together with other communities. He had represented Singapore with dignity and distinction as President.

For his contributions to Singapore, we will honour Encik Yusof in three ways: 

Firstly, a mosque will be named after him. We have consulted the Mufti on this matter. As you know a new mosque will be built in Woodlands. We have also consulted the new Woodlands Mosque Building Committee and Encik Yusof’s family. Thank you Mufti for giving me the honour tonight to announce the name of the new mosque. It will be known as Masjid Yusof Ishak.

Secondly, Encik Yusof was committed to progress through education. He also helped strengthen ties with our neighbours.  Hence, we will name Institute of South East Asian Studies (ISEAS) after him. It will now be known as “ISEAS – The Yusof Ishak Institute”.

Thirdly, we will also start a “Yusof Ishak Professorship in Social Sciences” at NUS. Fundraising will be led by a committee appointed by Minister Yaacob Ibrahim.

These are ways in which we ensure that future generations of Singaporeans will hold dear the memory, ideals and values of Encik Yusof Ishak.  Puan Noor Aishah, we are grateful for all the contributions and sacrifices made by your late husband to the nation. Thank you!

Malay/Muslim community has progressed dramatically in the half century since Encik Yusof was President. Year by year,  

Household incomes have increased steadily.

Many more make it to post-secondary education. 

Many more Malay PMETs

Each year I look for examples of Malay/Muslims who have excelled in different fields. I notice a trend - there are more and more outstanding examples, year by year.

This year we have about 35 Malay/Muslim first class honours graduates from local universities. Two caught my eye. They are: 

Afzal Ali who graduated from NUS Law School, with a concurrent Masters of Law degree from New York University. He is now a pupil at Allen & Gledhill.

Fauziah Ally, who graduated from Singapore Polytechnic with a Diploma in Biomedical Sciences. She then went on to obtain a First in Biological Sciences at NTU. She is now a research officer at A*STAR’s Institute of Molecular and Cell Biology (IMCB). 

Outstanding achievements. Congratulations!

Although the Malay/Muslim community have made much progress, there are some remaining challenges such as health. The incidences of Malay/Muslim patients with hypertension, diabetes, and obesity are all too prevalent. This is partly because of the food - nasi lemak, briyani and Malay cakes etc. are so delicious but rich and sweet!

Usually during Ramadan, most would lose weight but I know some actually gained weight!  Perhaps this was due to the irresistible iftar spreads. I encourage Malays to exercise more. The women folks have their kebaya-robics groups. What should the men do?

But there is greater awareness now. During the iftar at Mujahidin Mosque, I noticed those around me were watching carefully what they ate. They did not immediately “attack” the delicious Nasi Bukhari but ate more dates and fruits instead. So I too had to restrain myself!

Despite the challenges, overall community has done well. We must ensure that all Singaporeans can make progress. Where every one of you can realise your potential, regardless of family background, and so long as you work hard and put in the effort.

Education and training are a big part of the solution. In education, more and more Malays are making it to university. Among the rest, I know that more polytechnic students want to go to university and more ITE students want to go on to polytechnic. That is why we are helping more of them to do so like Fauziah Ally.

But academic route may not be suitable for everyone. Many have chosen the working route, e.g.  Iswandie Wanhar. Iswandie joined ST Aerospace under the NITEC Apprenticeship Scheme in 2000. While working, he completed NTC-2 in aircraft maintenance. After that, he did his diploma. He performed well and was promoted several times, most recently to Technical Training Instructor. We want more success stories like Iswandie Wanhar’s.

That is why I set up the ASPIRE Committee chaired by Ms Indranee Rajah. Its focus is to create more opportunities for Singaporeans to progress, especially ITE and polytechnic students. With this latest initiative, I am confident that more Singaporeans can expect to do even better in their lives.

By working together, I am confident that we can continue to progress. That is how the community has thrived over the past 50 years. As we prepare for our 50th birthday next year, let us uphold the spirit of our pioneers; strengthen our harmonious, multi-racial community. Let us give our children opportunities to realise their full potential. Let us reaffirm our commitment to make Singapore an even better place for ourselves and our children!

Thank you! 