Good evening everybody and welcome to this year’s Rally. This year’s Rally is special. It is not just a National Day Rally, it is also an SG50 Rally. We are looking back on 50 years of nation building and also forward to many more years of progress. I won’t be singing this year but someone else who sings much better will be singing. Let me begin in our National Language. 

My fellow Singaporeans,

Happy National Day! 50 years ago, Singapore separated from Malaysia. We became an independent sovereign nation.

At the press conference on 9 August 1965, Mr Lee Kuan Yew promised all Singaporeans that we will have equal chance to progress. "We are going to be a multi-racial nation in Singapore. We will set an example. This is not a Malay nation; this is not a Chinese nation; this is not an Indian nation. Everyone will have his place, equal: language, culture, religion."

Two days later, Mr Lee held a press conference with Malay journalists in Malay. Before asking his first question, a journalist addressed Mr Lee as “Tuan Perdana Menteri”. Mr Lee immediately replied, “Please do not address me as ‘Tuan Perdana Menteri’, but just as usual, ‘Saudara Lee’. It is not necessary.  I am not a Syed like Syed Jaafar Albar. I am a common man, a small man”.

Mr Lee’s remark set the tone for our society in Singapore, that we will be equal and egalitarian. We will work side by side and will build Singapore together. That is how our journey began.

50 years on the people worked closely with the Government, we are now a harmonious, multiracial society, egalitarian and successful. This is why we are celebrating SG50 together with gusto.

Since independence, the Malay community has made enormous progress. Today, Malays are represented in every part of Singapore society.

Nowadays when we look for promising professionals to field as candidates, we find many successful Malays in different fields - lawyers, bankers, educators, engineers and SAF officers.

Recently, I met two young ones at Min Yaacob’s Hari Raya Get-together. First, CPT Muhammad Azlan Abdul Latiff, a Super Puma pilot. CPT Azlan told me that he had transported my delegation when I visited Brunei 2 years ago. I did not recognise him because he was in his spiffy uniform with helmet just like the other pilots.

Second, CPT Muhammad Iskandar Dzul Fadhli Abdul Rahman, F5 fighter jet pilot. CPT Iskandar told me he was participating in the SG50 NDP. At NDP, I took a picture of the aerial display and I was told later that CPT Iskandar’s jet is in the picture. You can’t see him but there he is!

Both of them are poised, competitive and confident of holding their own. They are successful and handsome too!

Another example of Singapore’s success is Pak Iskandar Jalil, who is internationally renowned. He is a master potter who is actively passing on his skills to the next generation. His disciples come from all cultures and races. This year, we congratulate Pak Iskandar on being conferred one of the highest NDP awards, the Meritorious Service Medal. Although Pak Iskandar is not here tonight, congratulations!

Ladies and gentlemen, the Malay/Muslim community has successfully built a culture of self-reliance, but maintained the spirit of “gotong-royong”. This can be seen in your effort to set up self-help institutions such as Mendaki and AMP.

The Government strongly supported the progress of the community by providing resources, advice and also through the leadership by Malay/Muslim ministers and MPs. The community has also benefitted equally from national policies such as housing, education and healthcare.

In a multi-religious society, our government must be secular and neutral. But we understand the vital role of Islam in the community so we have been supportive. For example, we have set up MUIS, the Mosque Building and Mendaki Fund (MBMF), and the Mosque Upgrading Programme. In 40 years you have successfully built a total of 24 mosques to fulfil the needs of the Malay/Muslim community. I have visited quite a few of them – e.g. Al Muttaqin (in Ang Mo Kio), Mujahidin (in Queenstown), An Nur (in Woodlands) and Al Ansar (in Bedok). All of them were beautiful mosques, each with their own character and charm.

The Malay/Muslim community needs religious leaders who have grown up in Singapore and understand our society. They are familiar with our history and multi-religious context and appreciate the importance of tolerance and give-and-take with other groups. This will help us to achieve the Singapore Muslim Identity.

Because we have had such religious leaders in Singapore, we have protected ourselves from the threat of violent extremism. In particular, the RRG has played a vital role in refuting wrong interpretations of Islam and guiding back those who have been led astray. I would like to thank the RRG for their good work and also thank the community for taking a firm united stand against violent extremism. The government will continue to work with and support the Malay/Muslim community in these efforts and all communities should support them too.

Singapore madrasahs play an important role nurturing religious scholars and teachers. I am happy to see that madrasah standards have gone up, especially through the Joint Madrasah System (JMS). The Government would like to help madrasahs to improve further. We will leave religious education to MUIS and the community but the Government can help in secular subjects like mathematics and science. It is important for our religious scholars and leaders to have a good grounding in non-religious subjects. It prepares them to guide Singapore Muslims to live in a modern, technological society.

We will work with MUIS to strengthen the teaching of secular subjects in madrasahs by providing them with financial support to upgrade teachers of secular subjects and well as fund awards for students who do well in secular subjects.

Ladies and gentlemen, we also have to tackle social issues such as our HDB programme that has enabled more than 90 percent of HDB dwellers own their flats. A  small group still live in rental flats and within this group, Malays are over represented.  Many are young Malay families with marital and financial problems. They may have bought a flat before, divorced and now they live in rental flats. I am concerned about their future, especially that of their children. They may be trapped in poverty and their children will be affected too. We should help these families start afresh, if they are determined to put their lives in order by stabilising their families, holding a regular job, and keeping their children in school. We should help them own flats once again so that they are able to provide their children with a more stable environment. I will speak more about this in English speech later.

On the whole, Malay/Muslim community can be proud of its achievements, especially its contributions towards building a cohesive multiracial society.

For example, at Mr Lee Kuan Yew’s funeral service, Haji Sidek Saniff spoke movingly and shared personal stories of Mr Lee. It showed depth of their friendship. It was amazing because Sidek actually started off opposing a few Government policies but in the end, Sidek called Mr Lee a friend. He shared how he was touched by Mr Lee’s personal gestures. Sidek, I am glad I asked you to share your thoughts on Papa. Thank you!

Other speakers from different backgrounds, and races spoke too. They too regarded Mr Lee as their friend and shared how Mr Lee touched their lives. This showed how Mr Lee succeeded in building an inclusive, multi-racial society, as he promised from the beginning.

50 years on, I am touched and proud to see many Malays, especially the young, expressing heartfelt love for Singapore openly. They appreciate and uphold our multiracial society. This included a young BH reporter, Ms Nur Dhuha Esoof. After covering the SG50 NDP, she wrote,  

“…what struck me at the end of the parade was not the breathtaking aerial display or the impressive mobile column but the poignant words of our founding PM Lee Kuan Yew, speaking after we separated from Malaysia. Mr Lee said, ‘Let us Singaporeans unite as one united people regardless of race, language, religion, culture.’ 50 years have passed….The unity that Mr Lee envisioned in 1965 is now woven in a beautiful tapestry that is our Singapore Story.”

Thank you Dhuha and thank you to our Malay/Muslim community.

Ladies and gentlemen, the Malay/Muslim community is an integral part of Singapore. You have contributed significantly to our nation’s harmony and progress. The Government appreciates the community’s contributions and strong support. Let us continue the strong cooperation we have established over the years. Let us continue to write the Singapore Story by strengthening our harmonious, multi-racial community. Let us take our beloved Singapore beyond SG50 and make Singapore better for ourselves and our children!

Thank you!