Good evening everyone!

This year we celebrate SG50.  Throughout the year, we have participated in many celebrations to mark this significant milestone. Indeed, we have reason to celebrate the peace and prosperity of our country. Whilst we celebrate, it is also a time to reflect on how we achieved this together. And what we must do to remain special

It will take all night and more to list our every achievement over the last 50 years. So I have chosen some photos to highlight our journey. 

Before independence, we underwent turbulent times, with riots from time to time. In 1959, the PAP won the elections. The atmosphere at tonight’s rally is quite different from the rally then.  But rallies remain an important platform to discuss national issues and our future. PAP’s priorities in the 1960s were to improve lives and build homes for the people.

The first HDB flats were built in Duxton Plain in the 1960s.  Mr Lee had promised to build homes for his Tanjong Pagar residents. The Duxton flats were a symbol of a promise kept and a national development project. We began building flats all over Singapore, including Ang Mo Kio. I have served my Ang Mo Kio residents for over 30 years, and together, we have witnessed how Ang Mo Kio has transformed.

At independence, we had no SAF to defend Singapore. Two years later, we started National Service. At that time, Chinese generally felt that good men don’t become soldiers.  Then, you would see sad parents sending off their sons to serve NS. Nowadays, parents proudly celebrate the achievements of their sons at Recruit Passing Out Parades. I am also happy for them, as their Ah Boys become Men.

We also develop the economy, to provide jobs for workers, and a steady income for people. For example, shipyards employed many people and solve the problem of unemployment. As our economy transformed, there are many more types of jobs.  For example, technicians in precision engineering would need to have better skills. And as a result, they also earn higher wages.

To have better skills, our people need to have higher education.  The Government invested heavily in education.  Schools in the 60s and 70s used to have basic facilities only. Now schools have good facilities.  For example, Northlight School.  Here, students enjoy hands on learning and new opportunities. Students now are more fortunate.

We also emphasised a Green Singapore.  The Tree Planting Day has been an annual event for decades. With decades of hard work, we have become a City in a Garden.  We have HDB flats that are surrounded by beautiful greenery, such Dawson, like a beautiful HDB estate in a garden. The Botanic Gardens have been inscribed as a World Heritage Site.  It’s a special SG50 gift!

We have come far over 50 years.  Hence, at SG50 National Day Parade, we celebrated together with great joy!

Our Chinese community has contributed greatly in many ways to our success. Many Singapore towkays seized opportunities, built businesses and created jobs. Since colonial times, they served their community. They built schools, set up clan associations, and helped the poor. In post-war years, they fought for citizenship and fairness, and protected the community. Today, they are still active, donating to schools and supporting the clan associations. They also help other ethnic groups and help to strengthen social cohesion

Many SMEs and shop owners contribute through the grassroots too. For e.g., the Seventh month events raise funds for charities and needy residents through auctions and donations. The beneficiaries are grateful for their generosity.

There are also dedicated people in the cultural and education sectors. They are key community pillars. They instil good values and foster Singapore identity among the next generation. For example, winners of this year’s Inspiring Chinese Language Teachers Awards. These are teachers who have inspired students’ interest in Chinese language and culture with innovative teaching. They work tirelessly to lay the language foundation for our bilingual young, who can find opportunities in Greater China, and have done well! J J Lin, Stephanie Sun and Kit Chan, who sang at the National Day Parade this year, studied in English schools, but they are Mandarin pop-stars, with huge fan base here and overseas. Many of our younger Ministers and MPs, are effectively bilingual. They come from various schools, e.g. non-SAP schools. They are fluent in Chinese, and are able to explain policies effectively in Mandarin. These examples illustrate the success of our bilingual policy.

Our Chinese media play an important role in nation building. Their reports on Singapore news, world events and national policies help us to reach out to non-English users.    E.g. Lianhe Zaobao, Lianhe Wanbao and Shin Min Daily News have organised many special events to help explain Medishield Life and the Pioneer Generation Package.  For many decades, Mediacorp TV and Radio have kept language alive. To celebrate SG50, the Chinese media produced many in-depth specials on our nation-building journey. At the SG50 Sing-a-long organised by the Chinese media and other groups, I enjoyed myself singing familiar songs with everyone who attended.
 
I am also heartened to see many young people passionate about Chinese culture, e.g. the Chinese Theatre and Chinese Orchestra. The Chinese Orchestras are gaining popularity in schools and community, even among the non-Chinese. I attended a concert by Marsiling Chinese Orchestra in May. They invited a Filipino Rondalla string group to join them. The Marsiling Orchestra has multi-racial members. Shafiq, who plays the erhu, is one of the founding members of the Orchestra. At the launch of the Speak Mandarin Campaign last year, I watched an exciting performance by the Teng Company. These young performers inject new elements into traditional culture, and created something uniquely Singapore.

The Chinese community contributes to Singapore in many important ways. Like the motto of the Chinese Development Assistance Council, “A little from all, together it's more”. Let us all play our part to foster a vibrant culture and a thriving community. The Government supports all ethnic communities to preserve their cultural roots. Three years ago, I announced that we will set up the Singapore Chinese Cultural Centre. It has received enthusiastic support from the Chinese community. Thank you all for your support!

The Chinese community is an important pillar of Singapore. We set up the Chinese Community Liaison Group (CCLG) to foster closer bonds. Now led by Minister Chan Chun Sing, they have many new ideas for engagement this year, such as engaging on radio chats e.g. Minister on Air and Coffee Talk. I took part in Radio 958 chats for the last two years. They were lively sessions. A listener was worried about the cost of living. Let me next discuss cost of living.
 
What do we mean by cost of living?  It covers basic needs such as our daily expenses, and our spending on food, transport, housing and healthcare. Government has been working hard to meet the basic needs of our people. We have rolled out various measures to keep basic necessities affordable for all.

Food is all important, so let’s start with food. We are encouraging businesses to offer affordable food. E.g. Rice. NTUC Fairprice sells many varieties of rice.  There are about 30 brands, including Fairprice house brands which offer 10 types of rice. At Fairprice, there is a wide range of choices, from premium brands to house brands. Fairprice house brands are value for money and help save cost.

Many families eat out these days.  So we are building more hawker centres, and trying out different operating models for hawker centres, to keep cost affordable. Some of the hawker centres will be managed by cooperatives or social enterprises; some may be operate on not-for-profit basis. I visited the new hawker centre at Ci Yuan at Ang Mo Kio-Hougang.  It operates under the new model. The centre was filled with people.  Some stalls have long queues, so the food must be good and affordable. Happy that Ang Mo Kio residents can benefit.

Another basic need is Public Transport. There are many government measures to ensure affordable public transport. Almost 1.6 million commuters have concession cards. All students enjoy concessions, including polytechnic students. This year, we have issued Seniors Public Transport Vouchers for senior citizens above 60 years old, as part of SG50. Over the last 10 years, wage increases have outpaced transport fare increases. Most commuters have not paid more for public transport. Government measures have helped to keep public transport affordable for all.

Healthcare costs have been reduced through the Pioneer Generation Package and Medishield Life. Many Pioneers tell me that they are very happy with their PG Cards as the cards help them save money. Pioneers say: Last time I paid tens of dollars to see a doctor, now only a few dollars! Sometimes I also see my dentist for free! Children of Pioneers are also happy that their parents no longer worry about clinic bills. Some have yet to use the PG card, but because they have it, they have peace of mind. I am heartened, because our gesture of appreciation has helped our Pioneers in a practical way. But I hope all of you will stay healthy, so that you don’t need to use your PG card!
 
Housing prices have stabilised, with cooling measures and increased supply. More grants and subsidies have also enabled almost every family to own a HDB flat. We will introduce new schemes to enable households earning below $1,000 to own flat. I will elaborate in my English speech.

These are examples of government measures to keep food, transport, healthcare and housing affordable. These measures help to mitigate basic expenses. As Singapore develops, lifestyles change, spending habits change, and expectations rise. More families are using air conditioners, and other appliances. In the past, in every 10 households, only one or two would have aircon; now, in every 10 households, 7 or 8 own air cons. Aircons use more electricity, so utility bills increase. Another example is telecom bills. In the past, the whole family shared one telephone; the monthly phone bill was about $7. Now, each family member has a smartphone, and the monthly telecom bill for each person is 20 over dollars. For a family of 4 or 5, the monthly telecom bill can be quite sizeable. These may be reasons why money is not enough. This is due to a change in lifestyle, and higher living standards. It is reasonable for us to aspire to a better life, but this means higher expenses. There are various cost factors. Not all can be resolved through good policies.

Even as we attend to our domestic worries, we must remain alive to the outside world. Events elsewhere can affect us, especially in our neighbourhood. Our peace and stability are not cast in stone.  Our survival will be at risk if we are not vigilant.

Mr Lee Kuan Yew was always most worried about our survival. Two years ago, Mr Lee was old and frail. He once listened to a heated debate in Parliament on bread and butter issues. Mr Lee was deeply troubled. He was worried that we had all forgotten the critical threats to our survival. Mr Lee prepared a draft speech, ready to speak in Parliament. He wanted to remind us of the hard truths about Singapore’s survival. I explained to him that he had done more than his part over the decades, it’s now our job. He accepted my views and did not speak. So tonight, allow me to remind us all.

We are interdependent with our neighbours, Malaysia and Indonesia. Whenever the haze drifts to Singapore, we are reminded how close we are.
 
On Indonesia, we are friendly with President Jokowi. He thinks well of Singapore and both his sons studied here. But some Indonesians hold different views of Singapore. An Indonesian official explained: Indonesian Chinese are a minority in Indonesia, but wealthier than their Pribumis. Indonesian Pribumis are the majority – “big brother”. So their Chinese minority must meet Pribumi demands. Little red dot Singapore must know its place, and meet the demands of “big brother” Indonesia. Indonesia is a big country; hence the “big brother” attitudes are not surprising. But such views can sometimes be troublesome. For relationship to be equal and beneficial, we must stand our ground.

Malaysia is going through some challenging times. We can read in the news. This includes money politics, ISIS and terrorist threats, and race / religious tensions. Recent KL fighting incident at Low Yat shopping mall. Fortunately, it calmed down.  If you have seen the videos, you would realise it is a serious incident.  It could have easily escalated, and could have damaged race relations. Malaysia and Singapore are separate countries but troubles across the Causeway can affect our harmony. 

Therefore, we must be vigilant during peacetime and not take for granted the peace we enjoy today. Even as we focus on local issues, we must remember external situations may upset regional stability, destroy our peace and threaten our security. We must unite to protect our interest, defend our security and maintain our harmony.

Over the last 50 years, we have truly become more united and more stable. At independence, we had nothing and we faced severe challenges. But our Pioneers worked hard together, gave their all, and sacrificed for Singapore. In the journey together, the people and government forged a strong bond. Our Pioneers supported and trusted the government, supported policies which benefitted the people and the country. They understood government’s intentions and trusted that government was on their side. The pioneer generation knew this very well.

Over the last 50 years, from Mr Lee Kuan Yew, to Mr Goh Chok Tong, to me and my team, we know it’s our duty to govern well, to share the fruits of success and to nurture the next team, to keep Singapore going. This is how we are accountable to the people. The next leadership team must remain faithful to these principles because this is the secret of Singapore’s success.

Many people tell me that the elections are coming soon!  I replied, I’ve heard it too. Whether sooner or later, when the moment comes, please choose wisely, for yourself and your children. Please give my team your support, so that we can work together for the future of Singapore.

SG50 is not the end, but the beginning.  We are starting from a higher base. For the journey ahead, we must unite as one, and safeguard the legacy of our Pioneers, to enable us to scale many more peaks together. Let us keep Singapore a shining Red Dot, for SG100 and beyond.

Thank you!