My fellow Singaporeans, Happy National Day!

It’s the first Rally after SG50. Our next phase and it is time to think about how to secure our future.

In previous NDRs, I often start by talking about Geylang Serai. This year I had a chance to go down, not once but twice! First, for the light-up. It is more spectacular this year! I did not manage to enjoy the Bazaar, so I went back to the Bazaar on Hari Raya eve! I enjoyed myself and these are the pictures that I took. I mingled with many Singaporeans of all races. They were enjoying the delicious food and the festive atmosphere. All feeling safe, confident with each other, smiling.

These are things that we value. They are related to the themes of the speech tonight: our prosperity, our cohesion, our identity.

Our prosperity

To do well in the new economy, we need to master technology. Technology is changing industries. Even small businesses selling Hari Raya kueh are now operating online. Technology is replacing jobs. Factories are employing fewer workers and more robots, but technology is also creating new opportunities. We need more engineers and programmers, scientists and game designers (e.g. people behind Pokemon GO!). General workers too need to be able to operate computerised machines.

it is important for Malay Singaporeans to participate fully in the new economy. Many young Malays are doing so, like Muhammad Ariff Awari. He studied Electrical Engineering at ITE, and then Nanyang Polytechnic. He participated in WorldSkills Singapore 2016 and built a mobile robot. His mobile robot serves food to customers and collects trays. His robot won the silver medal.

Abdul Halim Ali Akbar is a graduate of Madrasah Irsyad Zuhri and Singapore Polytechnic. He received a Masters in Aeronautical Engineering from Imperial College, London and will do his PhD soon, but in the meantime is a research intern at A*Star. One of his projects is building drones which can receive navigational instructions from QR code. This is Halim lying on the floor with his drone. We are committed to give every child a good start so as to produce more Ariffs and Halims.

Of course there are many workers in the non-tech parts of the economy too. But there are also opportunities for workers to upgrade with SkillsFuture. For example, Noraishikin Ismail, who graduated from ITE with Higher Nitec in Accounting. She started as programme coordinator at the Singapore After-Care Association (SACA). She moved to do social work and took up a Higher Diploma in Social Service. She was promoted to Manager at SACA. She won a SkillsFuture Study Award and is now pursuing a Bachelor of Social Work. Congratulations, Noraishikin! I hope that more Malay workers will seize the opportunities to upgrade and improve their lives as did Noraishikin.

MENDAKI's Future Ready Unit has been actively preparing the Malay/Muslim community to fully participate in the New Economy. MENDAKI’s "Future Ready Conversation Series" engaged more than 400 people on the challenges and opportunities in the new economy, including those brought about by technology.

For young professionals and workers, Mendaki SENSE, the training and continuing education arm of MENDAKI, organises "Making SENSE of SkillsFuture" career fairs and "Sembang Petang" dialogues to explain  opportunities offered by SkillsFuture. I hope the community will work with MENDAKI and fully participate in the new economy. Other Malay/Muslim organisations like AMP should get involved too!

The more Malays participate and succeed in the New Economy, the stronger our multi-racial cohesion will be, and the better we will be able to overcome our challenges.

Terrorism

Among the key challenges we face today is the threat of terrorism. It has become more dangerous. ISIS in the Middle East has followers in our region. Malaysia has arrested more than 200 people linked to ISIS. Recently, Indonesia arrested several people in Batam who wanted to attack Singapore from Batam. In Singapore too, we have arrested individuals who have been radicalised.

We are blessed in Singapore to have the full support of all communities and religious groups in tackling the threat. We work together to foster a greater confidence among the different races. Malay/Muslim leaders counter extremist views strongly and openly. The Religious Rehabilitation Group (RRG) has been active – correcting misinterpretation of Islamic concepts and refuting extremist and terrorist ideologies. I welcome the Mufti's recent call for all of us to speak up and stand together – a united front to reject violence in all its forms. The Mufti's call sets the tone for the rest of the community.

Muslims also work together with non-Muslims to strengthen understanding between different religious groups. Ours is a multi-religious society. People of all religions make practical compromises to accommodate one another. We engage with each other, expand our common space and strengthen our shared identity. We do not segregate ourselves from other communities. We respect other faiths. We celebrate festivals with one another.

This is my personal experience too. I celebrate Chinese New Year with many non-Chinese friends. During the last Pongal, I celebrated it together with the Indian community at Cheng San. As I was strolling along East Coast Park on Christmas Eve last year, I came across a few families having a Christmas party. So I joined in! Last Ramadan I joined several iftars, including at Al Islah Mosque in Punggol. Muslims and non-Muslims sat side-by-side, waiting for the azan to break fast, and share the meal. I am sure you too have had the same experience! Only in Singapore!

But things are different elsewhere. The same religion is practised in different ways in different societies. Some foreign preachers who visit Singapore do not understand our multi-racial context. They preach separation between believers and non-believers. They condemn those who practise other faiths, and sometimes even those who practise the same faith, but in different ways. They advocate practices and customs that would cause grave harm in Singapore.

Some of our Muslim leaders have expressed their concerns to us. We have been paying attention to this. From time to time we have prevented such preachers from entering Singapore. Not only Muslim preachers, we have also stopped preachers from other faiths. The Government has to be consistently firm no matter what the religion, in order to safeguard our religious harmony.

That is why it is critical for our Muslim religious teachers (asatizah) to understand our multiracial context. For Asatizah who studied abroad, the SRP programme at RSIS together with MUIS Academy, offer the certificate course, Islamic Thought in Context: Living in Plural Societies. An understanding of contemporary issues and context is also incorporated in professional development programmes offered to Asatizah by the Asatizah Recognition Scheme (ARS). I understand that many Asatizah find this exposure useful and important. We must strengthen the scheme. So I am glad that Minister Yaacob Ibrahim has announced plans to extend the existing ARS to include all Asatizah. Right now it is voluntary. MUIS will make it compulsory. This will enable all Muslim religious teachers here to guide their students to practise Islam in the context of Singapore's multiracial society.

One aspect of being a cohesive society and having a sense of identity, is to have confidence and faith that the political system is inclusive – especially the President who symbolises the state.

Elected President

Currently, we are reviewing the Elected Presidency. Why should we improve the system?

Singapore became an independent country because we had an ideal. That everyone would have equal opportunities, regardless of race, language or religion. That minority communities would have the space to practise their cultures and ways of life, and not be marginalised or oppressed by the majority Chinese community.

To build a multiracial society, we knew that the minorities had to feel that they are well-represented in the political system, and that their interests are looked after. That is why we created GRCs, to ensure that there will always be MPs from minority races in Parliament. Now we are looking into the same issue for the elected President.

Previously, when the President was elected by Parliament, we could ensure that all groups of Singaporeans could become President from time to time. So we had Encik Yusof Ishak, Prof Benjamin Sheares, Mr Devan Nair, and Mr Wee Kim Wee.

But now that the President is elected in a national election, it is harder for a non-Chinese to get elected as President. If it happens naturally, like it did with President S R Nathan, that is good. But if it does not happen for a long time, minorities will become disappointed, and rightly so. The issue can be politicised and manipulated to provoke ill-feelings in minority communities and divide us in the future. We must make the changes now and take action while it is peaceful and the society is united.

We must make sure that from time to time Singapore has a Malay President, an Indian President, or one from another minority race. I believe this assurance is important not just to minority communities, but also to Singapore. We will maintain the same stringent qualifying criteria no matter the race of the candidate for President. Therefore even with this arrangement, we have no doubt that every President who is elected would meet the same high standards. 

The President is the symbol of our nation. Every Singaporean must feel that someone of his race can become the President, and in fact does become President, from time to time. With that assurance, the President can play his role to unite Singaporeans.

That was what Encik Yusof Ishak stood for. As President, he represented all Singaporeans. The mosque in Woodlands named after him is almost ready. I can't wait for it to open in the first quarter of next year. Happy to know that the programmes the mosque will be running will reflect the enduring values that Encik Yusof stood for: meritocracy, multiculturalism, and modernisation.

Conclusion

In his New Year’s message for 1968, Encik Yusof spoke about these fundamentals of our society. This is what he said: "Therefore, we in Singapore should not fall into the tragic error of viewing the variety of language, religion, culture and race as a stumbling block to progress and prosperity. On the contrary, if we approach these differences with goodwill, tolerance and healthy curiosity, this rich variety will ultimately turn out to be our salvation. It is this tolerance for variety, among other things, which today makes Singapore the dynamic and progressive city it is."

We have done well to heed Encik Yusof's words. I have talked tonight about what we need to do to take his vision forward. We are united, but not homogenous. We must continue to work hard together to better integrate, practise give-and-take and build goodwill so that we can stay united. We have to make sure that our political system represents all Singaporeans, and all races.

That has been our nation's bedrock. That is how our minority and majority communities have lived harmoniously and prospered together. That is why today we can all sing "Majulah Singapura" together, as "one united people regardless of race, language or religion".

Thank you.