My fellow Singaporeans, Happy National Day!

The National Day Rally today is a chance for me to speak about issues that concern our future. This year, I will talk about three national issues: Raising the standards of preschools, fighting diabetes, and shaping a Smart Nation. 

These are long term issues, but we need to lay the foundations now, so that we can benefit in the future.

Preschool

First, preschool, which covers infant care and education for children under 6 years old. Preschool is important for children to help them develop cognitively, emotionally and socially, and also enable them to reach their full potential -- in school, at work, and in life. 

From a broader perspective, a good preschool system will enable every person to compete fairly in our meritocracy, and every citizen to benefit from Singapore’s progress, so Singapore can be a society of opportunities and hope for everyone.

That is why I am glad that more Malay children now attend preschool, which is also why the Government is raising the quality of preschools, and keeping them affordable.

We are creating more preschool places, including in infant care and nursery classes. This will help parents who both work, but cannot leave their children at home or with grandparents.

We will also provide preschool teachers with better training and careers. For example, Nuraslinda Safaruan. Nuraslinda worked as a preschool teacher after obtaining a diploma in early childhood. After several years, she was promoted to senior teacher. For a time, she left the preschool sector to become a stewardess. But she realised she loved children, so returned to teaching pre-schoolers last year. She is now working at My First Skool as its deputy centre lead. With good teachers like Nuraslinda, our children will get a good head start in life and parents will have ease of mind.

Diabetes

Next let me talk about diabetes. This is a serious health problem. 10 per cent of Singaporeans have diabetes. What is more alarming, 17 percent of Malays have diabetes. One reason is obesity, which is also more prevalent among Malays.

Once you get diabetes, it is for life. The disease can only be managed. And if it is not controlled properly, it can lead to complications and endanger your life.

Malay/Muslim organisations have been working with MOH to spread the message about diabetes. For example, mosques are promoting healthy lifestyle and better understanding of diabetes. So is the People’s Association, with MESRA taking the lead.

But Government can only do so much. It is up to each of us. If you watch your lifestyle and diet, you can avoid diabetes. And if you already have diabetes, you can manage the illness better. Act fast so that you will not regret later (Malay idiom: sebelum nasi menjadi bubur).

I suggest two things you can do: First, please watch what you eat and drink. I know Malay food is tasty because it is lemak (rich). Unfortunately, the richness comes from coconut milk and sugar. I love dodol, and I also love ondeh-ondeh. But my doctor would surely scold me if I eat too much and would tell me to eat less. It is practical advice: Eat less rather than not eat at all.

When we cook, even if we use less santan or sugar, we can still get a tasty result. For example, curry is still delicious if we use evaporated milk instead of coconut milk. Also, look for healthier options when you eat out. 

I visited the food court at Our Tampines Hub early this month. All stalls have at least one dish that is a healthy choice. For example, Madam Salama Salim’s popular soto ayam. She told me that she does not sauté the ingredients but boils them instead. She uses less salt and no preservatives at all. A bowl of her low calorie soto ayam is only $2.80. Cheap and nutritious! So to prevent diabetes, we must watch what we eat.

Besides watching our diet, we should also be more active by exercising more. Doctors recommend 150 minutes of exercise per week, or 20 minutes a day, which is not difficult. By doing activities that you enjoy, it will not seem like a chore. You can brisk walk, or do aquarobics with friends. For youths, perhaps futsal or floorball.

Make these adjustments to your lifestyle, for your own sake. They will make a big difference to your health. You will feel fitter and more cheerful! Let’s be guided by the Malay saying: “Berpahit-pahit dahulu, bermanis-manis kemudian.” [Accepts bitterness first so as to have sweetness later.] But not too sweet please, so that we can remain healthy. By having a healthy lifestyle and diet, we can fully appreciate the pantun: “Gendang gendut tali kecapi, kenyang perut suka hati!” [Full stomach (of healthy nutritious food) makes a happy heart.]

Smart Nation

My third topic tonight is Smart Nation. We are building a vibrant economy, and we want to make full use of IT to create opportunities and jobs for all.

The future is bright for our younger generation. Many Malay students in our universities, polytechnics and ITEs are doing technical courses. Courses such as software engineering, data science and digital art will stand them in good stead in the new economy.

For those who are already working, the Government will support you to upgrade yourself and retrain, through SkillsFuture. For example, Kamarudin Osman was a regional IT support manager at an MNC. He was retrenched in 2015, and he decided to teach himself in a new area: cybersecurity. Now he works as an IT security consultant in SingTel. Congratulations, Kamarudin!

We are attracting multinational technology companies to Singapore – for example, Facebook, Google, and Amazon. We also have many startups, often launched by Singaporeans. Launchpad@Block 71 is buzzing with activity, and AMP’s incubator, Common Space, is full.

We are happy to see many more young Malays taking advantage of IT and starting new companies in various sectors. For example, Syafiq Yusoff. He dropped out of school, and worked as a personal trainer after NS. He then set up Riverwood, a logistics company with only 2 vans and 4 workers. Syafiq knew logistics was a tough sector, but he persevered, often joining his workers to make deliveries. Syafiq also upgraded his operations by using technology. Under his leadership, Riverwood grew. When Amazon Prime Now set up in Singapore, they engaged Riverwood as its logistics partner. His company now employs 120 workers of all races and it is still growing!

Riverwood and Syafiq are just one among many Malay success stories in our new economy. I am confident many more Malays will be able to seize these new opportunities, be it as entrepreneurs, professionals, or technicians.

Conclusion

These three issues I talked about -- preschools, diabetes and Smart Nation -- concern the future of all Singaporeans. I am glad that the Malay community is participating fully in our efforts to build a better Singapore.

Our collective resolve will enable us to tackle the challenges we face and progress together as one united people. This was what our first President, Encik Yusok Ishak, envisioned 50 years ago. If he were alive today, he would be happy to see how much progress we have made.

My fellow Singaporeans, soon, if all goes well, another distinguished Malay Singaporean will become our next President. I hope he or she will bring as much distinction and honour to the office, and be as well-loved and remembered by Singaporeans, as Encik Yusof Ishak was.

Our multiracial presidency will strengthen our racial harmony, and our pride in and love of Singapore. It will enable us to work even closer together to face whatever challenges that may come our way, so we can thrive and progress as one people, one Singapore.

Thank you.