My fellow Singaporeans, Happy National Day!

Tonight, I will speak about the "3 Ms" – MUIS, MENDAKI and MESRA. MESRA is the People Association's (PA) Malay Activity Executive Committees Council. These three institutions are important, for they have long strengthened the Malay/Muslim community. By working more closely together, I am confident that they will be even more effective in fulfilling the needs and aspirations of Malays.

Over the last few months, I have attended several events involving the "3 Ms". For example, last Ramadan, I went for a jalan-jalan at Geylang Serai to soak in the festive atmosphere. I wanted to see Wisma Geylang Serai (WGS) – a beautiful building with pitched roofs, reminiscent of old Malay houses. I was happy to see WGS completed, having spoken about it at NDR 2011. A concert was going on, and there was a good crowd.

Geylang Serai Community Club and South East CDC have moved into WGS. Soon a childcare centre, senior care centre and family services centre will follow. WGS will officially open in January next year. MESRA has planned a series of events in the lead up, like Bulan Bahasa, Gentarasa and youth festivals. WGS will be a centre for Malay activities, an icon that the community can be proud of.

We can do more to make Geylang Serai a culturally distinctive precinct, stretching from the Tanjong Katong Complex to Kampong Ubi CC. WGS can use the open field and car park next door for activities. We can beautify and coordinate the night lighting, and turn the junction in front of WGS into a landmark, to create a distinctive feel and sense of arrival.

I have appointed SMS Maliki Osman to lead this project. He will work with MESRA, the local merchants and Government agencies. He will also engage the Malay community and other Singaporeans to solicit ideas and make recommendations to the Government. I am sure that the next time I visit, Geylang Serai will be even more vibrant and special.

Last Ramadan, I also joined an iftar at Masjid Maarof in Jurong, one of the three new mosques that MUIS has built in recent years. It is beautifully designed, and can host 4,500 congregants. It has facilities for families with young children, as well as the visually impaired, deaf and hard of hearing community.

What impressed me was not just the architecture and facilities, but also Masjid Maarof's management board and volunteers, including young activists, women and retirees. They are well-qualified and passionate. The volunteers organise activities ranging from religious and parenting classes to health screenings. They contribute their time, and provide vision and leadership to the community.

Apart from overseeing the mosques, MUIS also has an important role providing religious guidance. Many eminent Muslim thinkers have visited Singapore on the MUIS Distinguished Visitors Programme, to speak about Islam and its place in the world. In May, I hosted the Grand Imam of Al-Azhar, Dr Ahmed Al Tayyeb, to dinner. He praised Singapore as a "role model" where Muslims can practise their faith and integrate with others. In his public lecture, Grand Imam Al Tayyeb emphasised how people of all religions should respect other faiths and practices, and interact with one another in a practical and inclusive way. His sage advice is universally relevant, but especially important to us in multi-racial and multi-religious Singapore.

Now, let me speak about MENDAKI. Last month, I launched Encik Sidek Saniff's memoirs, "Life Reflections at 80". For 25 years, Sidek served as a Member of Parliament (MP) and Senior Minister of State. He championed improving the lives of Malay Singaporeans, especially through education. In his book, Sidek recounts how in 1982 he chaired the MENDAKI Congress. Sidek’s contributions, together with his fellow Malay MPs and community leaders during the Congress, led to the formation of Yayasan MENDAKI.

MENDAKI was our first ethnic-based self-help group. Working with Malay/ Muslim organisations, MENDAKI has uplifted the community through its education and social programmes, like tuition classes and education bursaries. MENDAKI has been instrumental in achieving sustained educational improvements among Malay students over the past few decades. Most importantly, it has fostered a sense of pride in the community, a can-do spirit, of helping one another and making a difference.

Recently, I met Khairul Rusydi, a recipient of Anugerah MENDAKI, at the Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting in London. He was representing Singapore on the Commonwealth Youth Council. Rusydi co-founded Reactor, a start-up which conducts entrepreneurship courses and mentors youth. Having succeeded with the help of the community, Rusydi is now paying it forward by mentoring others.

I have shared these stories to illustrate the good work done by MESRA, MUIS and MENDAKI. Minister Masagos calls them the M³. Individually, each continues to make major contributions to the community’s progress by looking after their cultural, religious, educational and social needs, respectively. MESRA organises activities leveraging its grassroots network, and the resources of the PA. MUIS has a dedicated cadre of mosque volunteers, asatizah and madrasah students. MENDAKI supports students and parents, and encourages successful Malays to help others in the community.

Masagos and the PAP Malay MPs plan for M³ to work closely together. The three organisations will come together, combine their resources and volunteers, and collaborate with the Government and other Malay/Muslims Organisations. By doing so, they can make even more headway in tackling the challenges the community faces. These challenges include getting more young children to attend pre-school, empowering and mentoring youth, and supporting those who are left behind because of drugs or social problems. We have taken a first step in this direction, with MUIS and MENDAKI having a joint-office at WGS, and seven other MMOs jointly running a one-stop service centre — or MMO Hub — there as well.

I agree with the plans for M³ and I give them my full support. This new collaboration and unity is a positive development. As the Malay saying goes, seikat bak sirih, serumpun bak serai (together like a bunch of betel leaves, united like a bundle of lemongrass).

M³ will need the strong support of the community to succeed. I hope more Malays will contribute to the community through M³, whether you are new volunteers or activists already in the mosques and various Malay/Muslim organisations. Let us come forward to help, and take the community forward.

Conclusion

The Malay/Muslim community has much to celebrate. It has made great strides forward, individually as well as collectively. You have built a strong culture of self-reliance and gotong royong. You have maintained your unique identity, while being very much part of Singapore. Singapore must remain a country where all Malays can achieve their aspirations. Let us work together to strengthen our harmonious, multi-racial community, and progress as one people, one Singapore.

Thank you.