My fellow Singaporeans, Happy National Day!

We are commemorating our Bicentennial this year. Many community groups have organised activities to look back at our rich history, going back several centuries. For example, Republic Polytechnic’s Pentas Karyawan group staged “Kurun Yang Hilang” in April, about the Kingdom of Singapura in the 14th century. And this October, the Malay Heritage Centre is organising a festival and special exhibition to showcase the diverse origins of our Malay community.

Malays came to Singapore in large numbers after Stamford Raffles arrived. They included the Orang Laut, Malays from Johor and Riau, Minang, Bugis, Javanese, Baweanese, plus Arabs from Yemen, and some people from India. 

Here is a Baweanese family in the early 20th century, dressed in their traditional garb. Known as the Boyanese, they were originally from Pulau Bawean in East Java. They are a tight-knit group who used to live communally in pondoks — among other places, in Rochor and Tanjong Pagar. Now they have become very much a part of the larger Malay community — and indeed, of Singapore too. And so it is with the other groups too. 

Your cultural and historical ties with our neighbouring countries enabled Singaporeans to understand and get along with the peoples of these countries. At the same time, your influence on Singapore society helped shape our national identity as a multiracial country in Southeast Asia. In this process, Singapore Malays have developed your own unique identity, and you have become distinct from other Malays in the region, and from Muslims elsewhere in the world. Just hearing the way you speak, one can tell, ah, this is a Singaporean Malay! 

Several characteristics define the Singapore Malay identity and Minister Masagos recently described them as the three Cs: Citizenry, Competency and Character. Tonight, I will talk about two Cs: 
a. Competency — which your community has enhanced through your emphasis on education; and
b. Character — which you have formed through the way you practise your religion in our multiracial context.

Education

First, competency. Our Malay community has progressed because of your emphasis on education. Each successive generation of Malays has been better educated, and thus held better jobs, and led more fulfilling lives, than the previous. As the idiom goes, bit by bit, it will become a hill. And perhaps even a mountain! 

I can cite many examples. One, as you can see from this photograph taken in 2007, the number of Anugerah Mendaki (Mendaki Awards) recipients who graduated with first class honours was only 7. But look at this picture taken last year. There were 70 of them! A ten-fold increase in 10 years! Well done to the Malay community!

A younger generation of outstanding Malays are now holding important positions in the community. Several are scholarship recipients, including the CE of MUIS and the Mufti, as well as their deputies.

And this year, we have a Malay President’s Scholar, Muhammad Dhafer Muhammad Faishal. Dhafer excels academically, and also has a heart for the community. He volunteers whenever he is free and here he is helping children at Pertapis Children’s Home with their homework. To Dhafer and his family, including his father, SPS Faishal Ibrahim, congratulations!

More Malay parents have been sending their children to pre-school because they understand the importance of providing their children with a good foundation before primary school. More Malay parents and their children are also attending KMM, or KelasMateMatika@CC, organised by the M3 organisations. However, it would be even better if more parents sent their children to pre-school even earlier, from the ages of 3 or 4. The quality of pre-schools has improved, and they are now more affordable. With government support, the cost of full-day nursery or kindergarten for a needy family can be as low as $3! 

We will ensure that pre-school is more affordable for the middle income too. I will talk more about this in my English speech later.

In school and post-secondary, Malay students are also showing better results. More Malays now graduate with diplomas and degrees than before and there are also those who upgrade after completing ITE or poly. This helps them climb the career ladder and opens more career options.

Take Mr Mohammad Abdillah, who is shown in this picture. He failed his PSLE twice, then went to Northlight School. On his first day at Northlight, Abdillah was asked what was his ambition. He wrote ‘Designer’ but deep in his heart, Abdillah doubted that he would ever achieve his dream. Encouraged by his teachers, he did well at Northlight, and went on to ITE to study animation. He excelled, and went on to Nanyang Polytechnic, where he obtained a diploma in motion graphics. Let us see a montage of Abdillah’s work. It is indeed very impressive! I am confident Abdillah will be a successful graphics designer. Well done Abdillah!

A large proportion of ITE graduates go on to upgrade themselves, like Abdillah did. This is important, because the demand for better skills and knowledge is ever rising. Today 7 in 10 Nitec graduates upgrade over the course of their careers. This is good, but it would be even better if we can make it 10 out of 10. MOE will soon announce expanded pathways for ITE students to upgrade themselves.

More broadly, more students are making it to polytechnics and universities. Many do not come from well-off families. Therefore, we must make sure that the fees for our polytechnics and universities are as affordable as possible, even for the poorest families. I will say more about this later in my English speech.

Religion

Another pillar of our Malay community is religion. Islam is one of the great religions of the world. It is a religion of peace, with almost two billion followers around the globe. Different Muslim communities practise Islam in different ways, depending on their own histories and traditions.

In Singapore’s plural society, Islam is practised in a spirit of mutual respect, tolerance and inclusiveness. Our asatizah are central to nurturing a progressive Muslim community. One ustaz who exemplifies this is Ustaz Zahid Zin. 

As the CEO of the Muslim Youth Forum, he takes a fresh approach in his religious classes, including getting non-Muslims to share their views with Muslim youths. DPM Swee Keat participated in one such dialogue. Ustaz Zahid also takes an active part in MESRA-led activities, and serves on the M3 Advisory Council. Recently, one of his distant relatives passed away. Ustaz Zahid paid respects at the wake, which was conducted in the Buddhist tradition. He posted on Facebook how all cultures and beliefs must be respected, and how his attendance at the Buddhist funeral was a teachable moment for his children. Actually, it was a teachable moment for all of us, whatever our religion or our age. Ustaz Zahid received the MUIS50 Inspiring Youth Award last year. I hope he will continue to inspire all of us. 

We want our asatizah to maintain high standards and be confident leaders in the future. SMS Maliki Osman is leading a committee to review how to enhance their professionalism, building on the Asatizah Recognition Scheme (ARS). I look forward to the committee’s recommendations. 

MUIS plays a crucial role in our Malay/Muslim community. Next year, MUIS will launch the Postgraduate Certificate in Islam in Contemporary Societies (PCICS). This course is for religious teachers who were educated overseas and returning home. It is meant to train them in the application of what they have learnt overseas to our Singapore context. We also hope to explore new approaches and pedagogies in the teaching and learning of Islam. All this will help us develop a model for our own Islamic college, which will one day train a new generation of asatizah in Singapore.

Because of our success building harmonious racial and religious relations, the Malay/Muslims here are well regarded as a model for other Muslim and minority communities. Recently, we organised an International Conference on Cohesive Societies. Our scholars and practitioners had fruitful exchanges with their foreign counterparts. The conference served as a reminder to many of us that we should to persevere in strengthening our religious harmony, even as race and religion are causing serious conflicts in many other societies. 

Conclusion

You can all be proud of your achievements. Over several centuries, you have built a strong community and enriched our history. The Malay community has prospered with the nation. Now, Malays have their own distinct identity. At the same time, you have integrated with other communities, and formed solid instincts as sons and daughters of Singapore. The Bicentennial is an opportunity for all of us to mark the contributions of the Malay community and celebrate your achievements. I am confident you will continue to progress year after year. 

The Government will walk with you every step of the way, and support your aspirations, so you can continue to be a Community of Success.

Thank you.