Securing Our Future

My fellow Singaporeans. Happy National Day!

COVID-19

After two and a half years, glad that our fight against COVID-19 is progressing well.

We eased Safe Management Measures (SMM) earlier this year, a few days before Ramadan. This was positively received by the Malay/Muslim community. I visited Al-Muttaqin Mosque during Ramadan and met with their volunteers. They were happy that mosque activities, such as Tarawih and Friday prayers can resume similar to pre-pandemic times.

Haj has also resumed. This year, more pilgrims than expected could go to Mecca, with the number more than what was originally offered.

And of course, not forgetting the festive mood at the Ramadan bazaars ahead of Hari Raya. I had the opportunity to visit the Geylang Serai bazaar once again, and took these pictures. Stallholders were enjoying brisk business. Families were also happily shopping and eating. During Hari Raya, the Malay/Muslim community also celebrated joyfully with family and friends.

All this was possible because of the collective efforts of Singaporeans, including the many Malay/Muslims at the front and centre in our fight against COVID-19.

They treated patients, managed quarantine facilities, ran testing and vaccination operations and protected our borders.

For example, ICA officer Staff Sergeant Muhammad Rizwan Ismail. At the start of the pandemic, the first flight bringing Singaporeans home from Wuhan landed at Changi Airport. Despite the uncertainties and fears surrounding the new virus at that time, Staff Sergeant Rizwan volunteered without hesitation to conduct immigration clearance for passengers.

Or Dr Norhisham Main from Ng Teng Fong General Hospital, who is also President of the Muslim Healthcare Professionals Association. As a doctor, he looked after a heavy load of patients, both COVID-19 and non-COVID-19. Outside the hospital, Dr Norhisham was regularly on the ground explaining the COVID-19 situation to the Malay/Muslim community. He helped to dispel their fears and concerns about the virus and garnered their support for our SMMs.

Another example, Ms Nur Nazaria Baharudin, a senior staff nurse at National Neuroscience Institute. She volunteered for deployment at the frontlines not once or twice, but three times! Ms Nazaria helped to care for thousands of migrant workers, at the dorms and at CCF@EXPO. It was tough work, with many long hours in full PPE. But for her, it was always about keeping her patients safe.

Staff Sergeant Rizwan, Dr Norhisham and Mdm Nazaria are here with us today.

There are many other examples of Malay/Muslim individuals all doing their bit to keep Singaporeans safe.

Masyarakat yang Teguh dan Berjaya

The contributions of the Malay/Muslim community during the pandemic are testament to our society’s progress and success, reflecting how integrated we all are in Singapore’s multi-racial multi-religious society.

The Malay/Muslim community has greatly contributed to this success. Each one of you did your part to contribute to the common good. Also many contributions from the strong network of community organisations committed to the development of the Malays.

Like MENDAKI – this year is its 40th anniversary.

They are a prime example of how the community comes together to help one another. This can be seen through the number of individuals who have done well, contributing back to the community. They committed time and energy to help others succeed like them. I am also happy that MENDAKI continued their programmes despite the pandemic.

Since its founding, MENDAKI has helped the Malay/Muslim community to focus on education as the key to socio-economic progress. Like the Malay proverb ‘ibarat genggam bara api biar sampai jadi arang’ (Meaning: When doing something, see it through to the end). The results of MENDAKI’s effort speak for themselves. For instance, the MENDAKI Excellence awards, given to those who attained degrees with First Class Honours. During the first 10 years of MENDAKI’s history, they presented only a handful of the awards. But over the last decade, the number of recipients has increased to close to 500. Well done!

Better academic performance has led to better jobs with more Malay/Muslims in professional roles, higher incomes, and having better lives. I look forward to joining MENDAKI’s 40th anniversary celebrations in October, and to acknowledge their good work and contributions to the Malay/Muslim community.

The success and self-confidence of a community depends not only on its socio-economic progress, but also intangible cultural and spiritual factors. Over the years, the Malay/Muslim community has developed its unique identity as Singaporean Muslims living harmoniously in our multi-racial, multi-religious society.

In this journey, the Malay/Muslim community has benefited from strong religious leadership.

Practical guidance by MUIS and our asatizah helped you to adapt your religious practices to our constantly changing and complex circumstances.

Most recently in the face of COVID-19, you adjusted the Friday prayer arrangements, and deferred the Haj two years in a row. The decision, although difficult, was clearly wise: it kept the pilgrims safe and was well received.

After the 9/11 terrorist attacks, a group of senior asatizah came together to form the Religious Rehabilitation Group (RRG).

The RRG worked unremittingly to rehabilitate those who had gone astray, and to guide the community on the correct interpretation and practice of Islam. They not only protected our Muslim community from extremist ideologies, but helped to maintain trust and confidence towards our multi-racial, multi-religious society.

Next year will be the RRG’s 20th anniversary. I would like to thank the generations of asatizah who have served on the RRG. Especially its co-chairmen Ustaz Hasbi Hassan and Ustaz Ali Mohamed who have shown strong leadership, courage, and commitment.

Ustaz Ali will be retiring as RRG co-chairman at the end of the month. We are glad that he will continue to contribute his experience and knowledge as RRG’s Emeritus President. Beyond RRG, Ustaz Ali also held many other leadership roles in the Malay/Muslim community. Including as Chairman of Khadijah Mosque for 30 years, until recently.

Ustaz Ali, wishing you a happy retirement. Thank you for your great contributions to the Malay/Muslim community and to Singapore!

My fellow Singaporeans, as a multi-racial society, we often need to deal with sensitive issues. We must deal with it in a manner that preserves our society’s racial and religious harmony.

This requires mutual understanding across all groups, and the willingness to give-and-take and work together.

Only then can every group have the space to maintain its religious and cultural practices, and get on harmoniously together.

Last year, I announced that we would allow nurses in public hospitals to wear tudung with their uniforms, if they wish to.

This decision was years in the making. It took a lot of quiet engagement, dialogue, preparation, and understanding from all parties – and not just the Malay/Muslim community. I am glad that we were eventually able to implement this smoothly, and that the move was well accepted by everyone. Indeed, looking back after a year, the approach we took is the right one.

Definitely, from time to time there will be other sensitive issues that we must address in the same manner.

One such issue, as you would know, is S377A. It is fundamentally different from the tudung issue. But it needs to be handled just as carefully. I will say more on this in my English speech.

But let me reassure everyone that in handling the issue, the Government will continue to uphold families as the basic building blocks of society. We will keep our policies on family and marriage unchanged, and maintain the prevailing norms and social values of our society.

S377A is a highly sensitive and contentious issue. There are strong views on both sides. But we must not allow it to divide us, like what has happened elsewhere. We must handle this carefully like how a Malay proverb describes it best – ‘ibarat menarik rambut dalam tepung, rambut jangan putus, tepung jangan berserak’ (Meaning: Complex matters need to be handled delicately with care to avoid undesirable consequences.). Every group must accept that it cannot get everything it wants, because that is simply not possible. And we must maintain the mutual respect and trust that we have painstakingly built up over the years, and stay united as one people.

Maju Bersama

In an increasingly uncertain and complex world, our society’s resilience and unity will be more important than ever.

A strong and resilient Malay/Muslim community also makes for a stronger and more resilient Singapore.

I am glad that over the decades, the Malay/Muslim community has progressed steadily on the socio-economic front, forged a distinctive and confident Singaporean Malay/Muslim identity, and integrated deeply into our multi-racial society. I am also heartened to see that the Malay/Muslim community continues to strive to do better to achieve your aspirations.

The Government supports the Malay/Muslim community in its efforts over the decades, and will continue to do so.

My fellow Singaporeans, let us further strengthen this unity and continue to ride out the challenges together as one united people. Let us work hand in hand to build a better Singapore and create a brighter future for all.

Thank you!