Singapore’s prospects have never been better.  Our economy is vibrant and competitive.  Our society is strong and cohesive.  Malay/Muslims are doing well in this environment, and are in a strong position to tackle the challenges of globalisation.  The formation of Mendaki 25 years ago was a major turning point.  Mendaki was the first self-help group in Singa-pore.  Through Mendaki and other Malay/Muslim organisations, successful Malays pitched in to help the weaker members, and focussed the community’s efforts on education, especially English, Mathe¬matics and Science. 

In the last few years, through the Community Leaders’ Forum, Malay/Muslim organisations have rallied around to support Mendaki and work together to uplift the community.  With the deep spirit of self-help, and the encouragement and support of the Govern¬ment, you tackled difficult problems and gradually overcame them.  As the Malay proverb says, “Water is shaped flowing through the bamboo; agreements are shaped by consensus”.   Whether in education, housing, socio-economic status, or in the fight against drug abuse, you have scored major successes. Improvements from year to year have been gradual, but the transformation over 25 years has been significant. 

Today more Malay/Muslims students are doing well in the polytechnics and universities, like Ms Nur Aniszah Sapari, who has won a prestigious scholarship at Ngee Ann Polytechnic.  More young Malay/Muslims are pursuing opportunities and careers abroad, like Ashley Isham a successful fashion designer in London who recently won the Berita Harian Jauhari Award.  Each year, we see more success stories like these.  All of you, and all Singaporeans, can be proud of this.

Beyond the concrete results attained, the most important achievement is the spirit of the community – confident, united and self-reliant.  You have competed as equals with others, and can succeed in our system of meritocracy.  All other Singa¬poreans know this too.  You have become more self-assured in tackling new issues and challenges.  Even when they are sensitive and difficult, you identify them proactively and tackle them openly and objectively.

One such issue is dysfunctional families, and the related problems of early marriage and teenage pregnancy.  The community has started programmes to address this.  But the number of teenage pregnancies among Malay girls is still far too high.  I urge Malay/Muslim organisations to work with Mendaki on this problem. This will be a long-term effort, but I am confident that the community will tackle it resolutely, and will eventually prevail.

Another issue is extremist terrorism, which affects all Singaporeans. This is not a new threat, but it has taken on a new and dangerous form. The internet makes it easy for extremists to propagate their poisonous ideas.  Some will be drawn to them.  A few may become self-radicalised, unknown to their family and friends.  This has happened not only in Singa-pore, but in other countries too.

I am glad that the community recognises the seriousness of the threat.  Your leaders have stepped forward to deal with it directly and honestly.  MUIS is taking the lead to uphold Islam as a progressive, tolerant and peaceful religion.  The Religious Rehabilitation Group (RRG) is doing an outstanding job.  Respected ustazs have come forward to counsel detainees and counter radical teachings, and help Singa¬pore Muslims understand Islam in the context of our secular society. 

Critically, the community has adopted a clear and uncompromising attitude.  This sends a strong signal that these radical ideas are wrong, and that if anyone succumbs to them, the community will condemn their actions.  It also assures other Singaporeans that Malay/Muslim Singaporeans are playing their part to keep Singapore safe and secure.

A third issue is organ donation.  This is a sensitive issue for many Singa¬poreans, but especially for Muslims.  Thus when the Govern¬ment passed the Human Organ Transplant Act (HOTA) two decades ago, Muslims were not included in the Act.

Since then, the community’s understanding and acceptance of organ donation has gradually grown.  But for a long time, one major remaining hurdle was the issue of opting-out.  Now the Fatwa Committee has ruled that Muslims may participate in opt-out schemes.  Malay/Muslim leaders have asked for Muslims to be brought into the HOTA.  They want Muslim patients to enjoy equal priority for organ transplants.  But their main concern is compassion for the patients, and the vital need to save lives.

I am happy at this development.  In response to requests from the Malay/Muslim community, the Govern¬ment will amend the HOTA to include Muslims.  In this way, more patients who need organ transplant will be helped. This is another good example of cooperation between the Malay/Muslim community and the Government.

The trust and confidence between the Government and Malay community, and between Muslims and non-Muslims, is one of our nation’s key assets.  This is especially so now, when in many other societies relations between Muslims and non-Muslims are troubled.  In European and even Asian countries, this has resulted in alienation and violence.  In Singa¬pore, because of our comprehensive policies of integration – in HDB neighbourhoods, in schools, and in our national life – Muslims have become part of the wider community. 

But from time to time, there will be yet other sensitive issues that our Malay/Muslim community will need to ponder on and solve.  I hope MUIS and the Malay/Muslim organisations will continue to educate the community on these issues, and increase its cooperation with the Government and other communities.  This will strengthen our compact as a multi-racial nation.   

Malay/Muslims also share the national concerns of other Singa-poreans.  These include international developments which affect Singapore like the current turmoil in the financial markets.  We also have to think about our domestic priorities, such as an ageing population, bridging the income divide, enhancing the value of our homes and encouraging more non-Malay Singa¬poreans to learn Malay in schools.  I will address these in my English speech later.  Whatever the issues, we are on the same side, working as one team, and striving for the best result for Singa¬pore.     

Our efforts to build a progressive and well-integrated Malay/Muslim community have been noticed.  When foreign leaders meet me, they often ask me about our approach.  They tell me how much they marvel at Singa-pore.  We have achieved something unique and precious – racial and religious harmony amidst a troubled world.  We must treasure it and do our best to keep it this way.  The Government will give full support to your efforts.  Let us build a Community of Excellence in our City of Possibilities.